=== PDF PAGE 169 ===
Contents 
Punctuation 
153 
6.1 Spacing After Punctuation Marks 
154 
6.2 Period 
154 
6.3 Comma 
155 
6.4 Semicolon 
156 
6.5 Colon 
156 
6.6 Dash 
157 
6.7 Quotation Marks 
157 
6.8 Parentheses 
159 
6.9 Square Brackets 
160 
6.10 Slash 
160 
Spelling 
6.11 Preferred Spelling 
161 
6.12 Hyphenation 
162 
161 
Capitalization 
165 
6.13 Words Beginning a Sentence 
165 
6.14 Proper Nouns and Trade Names 
165 
6.15 Job Titles and Positions 
166 
6.16 Diseases, Disorders, Therapies, 
Theories, and Related Terms 
166 
6.17 Titles ofWorks and Headings Within 
Works 
167 
6.18 Titles of Tests and Measures 
168 
6.19 Nouns Followed by Numerals or 
Letters 
168 
6.20 Names of Conditions or Groups in 
an Experiment 
169 
6.21 Names of Factors, Variables, and 
Effects 
169 
ltalics 
170 
6.22 Use of Italics 
170 
6.23 Reverse Italics 
171 
Abbreviations 
172 
6.24 Use of Abbreviations 
172 
6.25 Definition of Abbreviations 
173 
6.26 Format of Abbreviations 
173 
6.27 Unit of Measurement 
Abbreviations 
174 
6.28 Time Abbreviations 
176 
6.29 Latin Abbreviations 
176 
6.30 Chemical Compound 
Abbreviations 
177 
6.31 Gene and Protein Name 
Abbreviations 
177 
Numbers 
6.32 Numbers Expressed in 
Numerals 
178 
6.33 Numbers Expressed in Words 
179 
6.34 Combining Numerals and Words 
to Express Numbers 
179 
6.35 Ordinal Numbers 
179 
6.36 Decimal Fractions 
180 
6.37 Roman Numerals 
180 
6.38 Commas in Numbers 
180 
6.39 Plurals of Numbers 
181 
Statistical and Mathematical Copy 
6.40 Selecting Effective 
Presentation 
1 81 
6.41 References for Statistics 
181 
6.42 Formulas 
181 
6.43 Statistics in Text 
181 
6.44 Statistical Symbols and 
Abbreviations 
182 
6.45 Spacing, Alignment, and 
Punctuation for Statistics 
187 
Presentation of Equations 
6.46 Equations in Text 
188 
6.47 Displayed Equations 
188 
6.48 Preparing Statistical and 
Lists 
Mathematical Copy for 
Publication 
189 
6.49 List Guidelines 
189 
6.50 Lettered Lists 
189 . 
6.51 Numbered Lists 
189 
6.52 Bulleted Lists 
190 
178 
181 
188 
189 

=== PDF PAGE 170 ===
6 
MECHANICS OF STYLE 
Style refers to guidelines for ensuring clear, consistent communication and pre-
sentation in written works. APA Style, as described in this Publication Manual, 
provides guidelines for writing scholarly papers. Publishers and instructors 
often require authors writing for publication and students writing for a course 
or degree requirement to follow specific style guidelines to avoid inconsisten-
cies among and within journal articles, book chapters, and academic papers. 
For example, without style guidelines, authors might use the spellings "health 
care," "health-care," and "healthcare" interchangeably in one work. Although 
their meaning is the same and the choice of one style over another may seem 
arbitrary (in this case, "health care," with a space and no hyphen, is APA Style), 
such variations in style can distract or confuse readers. 
In this chapter, we provide essential style guidelines for scholarly writing, 
including punctuation, spelling, capitalization, italics, abbreviations, numbers, 
statistical and mathematical copy, and lists. These guidelines often overlap with 
those for general good writing practices. However, we omit general grammar 
rules explained in widely available writing manuals and examples of grammar 
or usage with little relevance to manuscripts submitted to journals that use APA 
Style. Style manuals agree more often than they disagree; when they disagree, 
the Publication Manual takes precedence for APA Style papers or publications. 
Punduation 
Punctuation establishes the cadence of a sentence, telling readers where to 
pause (comma, semicolon, and colon), stop (period and question mark), or take 
a detour (dash, parentheses, and square brackets). Punctuation of a sentence 
usually denotes a pause in thought; different kinds of punctuation indicate dif-
ferent kinds and lengths of pauses. 
, I
153 

=== PDF PAGE 171 ===
154 ~ MECHANICS OF STYLE 
6.1 Spacing After Punctuation Marks 
Insert one space after the following: 
• periods or other punctuation marks at the end of a sentence 
• commas, colons, and semicofons 
• periods that separate parts of a reference list entry (see Section 9.5) 
• periods following initials in names (M. P. Clark) 
Do not insert a space in the following cases: 
• after internal periods in abbreviations (e.g., a.m., i.e., U.S.) 
• after periods in identity-concealing labels for study participants (F.I.M.) 
• around colons in ratio s (1:4) 
Note: We recommend using one space after the period or other punctuation 
mark at the end of a sentence; however, follow the guidelines of your publisher or 
instructor if they have different requirements. 
6.2 Period 
Use a period or periods in the following cases: 
• to end a complete sentence 
• with initials in names (Bazerman, M. H.) 
• in the abbreviations for "United States" and "United Kingdom" when they are 
used as adjectives (U.S. Navy; it is not required to abbreviate these terms) 
• in identity-concealing labels for study participants (F.I.M.) 
• in Latin abbreviations (a.m., cf., e.g., i.e., p.m., vs.) 
• in reference abbreviations (Vol. 1, 2nd ed., p. 6, paras. 11-12, F. Supp.) 
• in era designations (B.C.E., e.E., B.e., A.D.; see Section 9.42) 
• to end each elementwithin areference (except DOIs and URLs; see Section 9.5) 
Do not use periods in the following cases: 
• in abbreviations of state, province, or territory names (NY; CA; Washington, 
DC; BC; ON; NSW) 
• in capitalletter abbreviations and acronyms (APA, NDA, NIMH, IQ) 
• in abbreviations for academic degrees (PhD, PsyD, EdD, MD, MA, RN, MSW, 
LCSW, etc.; see Section 2.5) 
• in abbreviations for routes of administration (icv, im, ip, iv, sc) 
• in metric and nonmetric measurement abbreviations (cm, hr, kg, min, mI, s) 
Note: Use a period with the abbreviation for "inch" or "inches" (in.) because 
otherwise it could be misread. 

=== PDF PAGE 172 ===
Punctuation 
~ 155 
• after URLs in the text (see Section 8.22); instead, place URLs in the middle of 
the sentence or in parentheses to avoid ending a sentence with a URL 
• after DOIs or URLs in the reference list(see Section 9.35) 
6.3 Comma 
Use a comma in the following cases: 
• between elements in a series of three or more items, including before the 
final item (see also Section 6.49); this last comma is called a serial camma or 
Oxfard camma 
Correct: height, width, and depth 
Incorrect: height, width and depth 
• after an introductory phrase (if the introductory phrase is short, the comma 
after it is optional) 
After the nurses administered the medication, patients rated their pain. 
in this section, we discuss 
or 
in this section we discuss 
• to set off a nonessential or nonrestrictive clause (see Section 4.21)- that is, a 
clause that embellishes a sentence but if removed would leave the grammati-
cal structure and meaning of the sentence intact 
Strong fearful faces, which are rarely seen in everyday life, convey intense expression of 
negative emotions. 
• to set off statistics in the text that already contain parentheses, to avoid nested 
parentheses 
Sleep amount was not significantly different between the three groups (nap: M = 7.48 
hr, SO = 1.99; wake: M = 8.13 hr, SO = 1.22; nap + wake: M = 7.25 hr, SO = 0.76), F(2, 71) 
= 2.32, P = .11. 
There was a main effect of group on corrected recognition, F(2, 71) = 3.38, P < .04, I'lp2 = .087. 
• to separate two independent clauses joined by a conjunction 
Facial expressions were presented, and different photo models were chosen randomly. 
• to set off the year in exact dates in the text or in a retrieval date (see Section 
9.16); however, when only a month and year appear in the text, do not use a 
comma 
Retrieved April 24, 2020, from 
in April 2020 
• to set off the year in parenthetical in-text citations 
(Bergen-Abramoff, 2018) 
(Horowitz, 2019, discovered . . . ) 
• to separate groups of three digits in most numbers of 1,000 or more (see Sec-
tion 6.38 for exceptions) 

=== PDF PAGE 173 ===
156 
~ MECHANICS OF STYLE 
Do not use a comma in the following cases: 
• before an essential or restrictive clause (see Section 4.21) because removing 
such a clause from the sentence would alter the intended meaning 
Adolescents who spent a small amount of time on electronic communication activities, 
were happier than those who spent no time on such activities. 
• between the two parts of a compound predicate 
Correct: Participants rated the items and completed a demographic questionnaire. 
Incorrect: Participants rated the items, and completed a demographic questionnaire, 
• to separate parts of measurement 
7 years 4 months 
2 min 35 s 
5 ft 10 in. 
6.4 Semicolon 
Use a semicolon in the following cases: 
• to separate two independent clauses that are notjoined by a conjunction 
Students received course credit for participation; community members received $10. 
• to separate two independent clauses joined by a conjunctive adverb such as 
"however;' "therefore," or "nevertheless" 
The children studied the vocabulary words; however, they had difficulties with recall. 
• to separate items in a list that already contain commas (see Section 6.49) 
The color groups were red, yellow, and blue; orange, green, and purple; or black, gray, 
and brown. 
• to separate multiple parenthetical citations (see Section 8.12) 
(Gaddis, 2018; Lai et al., 2016; Williams & Peng, 2019) 
• to separate different types of information in the same set of parentheses, to 
avoid back-to-back parentheses 
(n = 33; Fu & Ginsburg, 2020) 
• to separate sets of statistics that already contain commas 
(age, M = 34.5 years, 95% el [29.4, 39.6]; years of education, M = 10.4 [8.7,12.1]; and 
weekly income, M = $612 [522, 702]). 
6.5 Colon 
Use a colon in the following cases: 
• between a grammatically complete introductory clause (one that could 
stand alone as a sentence, including an imperative statement) and a final 
phrase or clause that illustrates, extends, or amplifies the preceding thought 
(if the-clause following the colon is a complete sentence, begin it with a cap-
italletter; see Section 6.13) 
There are three main patterns of mother-infant attachment: secure, avoidant, and resistantl 
ambivalent (Ainsworth et al., 1978). 
Yang et al. (2019) confirmed the finding: Test performance depended on preparation. 

=== PDF PAGE 174 ===
Punctuation 
~ 157 
• in ratios and proportions 
The proportion of salt tO water was 1 :8. 
Do not use a colon in the following case: 
• after an introduction that is not an independent clause or complete sentence 
The formula is r; = a; + e. 
Target behaviors included eating, sleeping, and socializing. 
The participants were asked to 
• rank the 15 items, 
• explain their choices, and 
• close their notebooks when finished. 
6.6 Dash 
Two kinds of dash are used in APA Style: the em dash (long dash) and the en dash 
(midsized dash). These dashes are different from hyphens (see Section 6.12) and 
minus signs (see Section 6.45). 
Em Dash. Use an em dash to set off an element added to amplify or digress from 
the main clause. Overuse of the em dash weakens the flow of material, so use 
it judiciously. Do not use a space before or after an em dash. Word-processing 
programs can be set to automatically convert two back-to-back hyphens to an 
em dash. (See Section 6.17 for capitalization following em dashes in titles.) 
Social adjustment-but not academic adjustment- was associated with extraversion. 
En Dash. An en dash is longer and thinner than a hyphen but shorter than an em 
dash. Use an en dash between words of equal weight in a compound adjective 
and to indicate a numerical range, such as a page or date range. Do not insert 
a space before or after an en dash. Word-processing programs have options for 
inserting an en dash. 
author-date citation 
Sydney- Los Angeles flight 
pp. 4-7 
50%-60% 
A hyphen rather than an en dash is generally used in an abbreviation that con-
tains dashes, such as the abbreviation for a test or scale (e.g., MMPI-2) or a diag-
nostic manual (DSM-S, ICD-ll; see Section 6.25). 
6.7 Quotation Marks 
This section addresses how to use quotation marks other than with direct quo-
tations (see Sections 8.25-8.36). Quotation marks often appear with other punc-
tuation marks. Place commas and periods inside closing quotation marks. Place 
other punctuation marks (e.g., colons, semicolons, ellipses) outside closing quo-
tation marks. 
Use double quotation marks in the following cases: 
• to refer to a letter, word, phrase, or sentence as a linguistic example or as itself 
the letter "m" 
the singular "they" 
answered "yes" or "no" 
. -·1 

=== PDF PAGE 175 ===
158 
~ MECHANICS OF STYLE 
Instead of referring to someone as a "defective ch ild," talk about a "child with a congenital 
disability" or a "child with a birth impairment." 
Students wrote "1 promise to uphold the honor code" at the top of the test page. 
• to present stimuli in the text (long lists of stimuli may be better presented in 
atable, where qubtation marks are not needed) 
. 
The stimulus words were "garden," "Iaundry," "briefcase," and "salary." 
Note: Some publishers prefer italics for the presentation of stimuli and so forth; 
consult the manuscript preparation guidelines or journal editor for the preferred 
format. 
• to reproduce material from a test item or verbatim instructions to partici~ 
pants (if instructions are long, present them in an appendix or set them off 
from text in block quote format without quotation marks; see Sections 2.14 
and 8.27) 
The first item was "How tired do you feel after a long day at work?" 
Participants read, "You can write as much as you like when answering the questions." 
• to introduce a word or phrase used as an ironic comment, as slang, or as an 
invented or coined expression; use quotation marks only for the first occur-
rence of the word or phrase, not for subsequent occurrences 
First occurrence: 
considered "normal" behavior 
called a "friendly link" 
Subsequent occurrence: 
normal behavior 
a friend ly link 
• to introduce a label; after the label has been used once, do not use quotation 
marks for subsequent occurrences 
The image label changed from "spiderweb" to "dartboard." The spiderweb and dartboard 
labels . .. 
• to set off the title of a periodical article or book chapter when the title is used 
in the text or in a copyright attribution (do not use quotation marks around 
the article or book chapter title in the reference list entry) 
In text: 
Oerlemans and Bakker's (2018) article, "Motivating Job Characteristics and Happiness at 
Work: A Multilevel Perspective," described ... 
In the reference Iist: 
Oerlemans, W. G. M., & Bakker, A. B. (2018). Motivating job characteristics and happiness 
at work: A mu ltilevel perspective. Joumal of Applied Psychology, 103(11), 1230- 1241. 
https://doi.org/10.1037/apI0000318 
In a copyright attribution: 
Adapted from "Motivating Job Characteristics and Happiness at Work: A Multilevel 
Perspective," by W. G. M. Oerlemans and A. B. Bakker, 2018, Joumal of Applied Psy-
chology, 103(11), p. 1236 (https://doi.org/10.1 037/apI00003 18). Copyright 2018 by 
the American Psy~h.9 l ogica l Association. 
Do not use double quotation marks in the following cases: 
• to highlight a key term or phrase (e.g., around a term for which you are going 
to provide a definition); instead, use italics (see Section 6.22) 

=== PDF PAGE 176 ===
Punctuation 
~ 159 
• to identify the anchors of a scale; instead, Lise italics (see Section 6.22) 
• to refer to a numeral as itself because the meaning is sufficiently clear with-
out quotation marks 
The numeral 2 was displayed onscreen. 
• to hedge or downplay meaning (do not use any punctuation with these 
expressions) 
Correct: The teacher rewarded the class with tokens. 
Incorrect: The teacher "rewarded" the class with tokens. 
6.8 Parentheses 
Use parentheses in the following cases: 
• to set off structurally independent elements 
The patterns were statistically significant (se e Figure 5). 
• to set off in-text citations (see Section 8.11) 
Barnes and Spreitzer (2019) described 
(Proctor & Hoffmann, 2016) 
• to introduce an abbreviation in the text (see also Section 6.25) 
galvanic skin response (GSR) 
Child Report of Parental Behavior Inventory (CRPBI; Sehaefer, 1965) 
• to set off letters that identify items in a list within a sentence or paragraph 
(see also Section 6.50) 
The subjeet areas included (a) synonyms associated with cultural interaetions, (b) descrip-
tors for ethnic group membership, and (e) psyehologieal symptoms and outeomes assoei-
ated with bieultural adaptation. 
• to group mathematical expressions (see also Sections 6.9 and 6.46) 
(k -1)/(g -2) 
• to enclose numbers that identify displayed formulas and equations 
M¡ = aM¡ _1 + f¡ + 9¡*9¡' 
(1) 
• to enclose statistical values that do not already contain parentheses 
was statistieally signifieant (p = .031) 
• to enclose degrees of freedom 
t(75) = 2.19 
F(2, 116) = 3.71 
Note: (When a complete sentenee is enclosed in parentheses, like this, place the 
end punetuation inside the parentheses.) If only part of a sentenee is enclosed in 
parentheses, place punetuation outside the parentheses (Iike this). 
Do not use parentheses in the following cases: 
• to enclose text within other parentheses; instead, use square brackets to 
avoid nested parentheses 
(Beek Depression Inventory [BDI]; Beek et al., 1996) 

=== PDF PAGE 177 ===
160 ~ MECHANICS OF STYLE 
o to endose statistics that already contain parentheses; instead, use a comma 
before the statistics to avoid nested parentheses 
were significantly different, F(4, 132) = 13.62, P < .001. 
o to endose back-to-back parenthetical information; instead, place the infor- . 
mation in one set of parentheses, separated with a semi colon 
Correct: (e.g., flow; Csikszentmihalyi, 2014) 
Incorrect: (e.g., flow) (Csikszentmihalyi, 2014) 
6.9 Square Brackets 
Use square brackets in the following cases: 
o to endose parenthetical material that is already in parentheses 
(The results for the control group [n = 8] are also presented in Figure 2.) 
o to endose abbreviations when the abbreviated term appears in parentheses 
(Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory-2 [MMPI-2]; Butcher et al., 2001) 
o to endose values that are the limits of a confidence interval 
95% Cls [-7.2, 4.3], [9.2, 12.4], and [-1.2, -0.5] 
o to endose material inserted in a quotation by someone other than the origi-
nal author (see also Section 8.31) 
Schofield et al. (2016) found that "these types of [warm and accepting] parenting behav-
iors are positively associated with healthy chi ld and adolescent adjustment" (p. 615). 
o to endose a description ofform for sorne works (e.g., those outside the typ-
ical peer-reviewed academic literature; see Section 9.21) in a reference list 
entry 
Do not use square brackets in the following cases: 
o to set off statistics that already indude parentheses 
Correct: in the first study, F(l, 32) = 4.37, P = .045. 
Incorrect: in the first study (F[l, 32] = 4.37, P = .045). 
Incorrect: in the first study [F(l, 32) = 4.37, P = .045]. 
Note: In mathematical material, the placement of brackets and parentheses is 
reversed; that is, parentheses appear within brackets (se e Section 6.46). 
o around the year in a narrative citation when the sentence containing the nar-
rative citation appears in parentheses; instead, use commas (see Section 8.11) 
Correct: (as Gregory, 2020, concluded . .. ) 
Incorrect: (as Gregory [2020] concluded ... ) 
6.10 Slash 
Use a slash (also called a "virgule," "solidus;' or "shill") in the following cases: 
o to darify a comparison in a compound adjective, especially when one of 
the elements is a hyphenated compound (alternatively, use an en dash; see 
Section 6.6) 

=== PDF PAGE 178 ===
the classification/similarity-judgment condition 
hits/false-alarms comparison 
testlretest reliability, test-retest reliability 
• to specify either of two possibilities 
and/or (use sparingly) 
Latino/a 
• to separate a numerator from a denominator 
XIY 
Spelling 
~ 161 
• to separate units of measurement accompanied by a numeric value (see Sec-
tion 6.27); if no numeric value appears with the unit of measurement, spell out 
the word "per." 
0.5 deg/s 
7.4 mg/kg 
cost per square meter 
• to set off phonemes 
101 
• in citations of translated, reprinted, reissued, or republished works in the 
text (see Section 9.41) 
Freud (1923/1961) 
Do not use a slash in the following cases: 
• more than once to express compound units; use centered dots and parenthe-
ses as needed to prevent ambiguity 
Correct: nmol • hr-1 • mg-1 
Incorrect: nmol/hr/mg 
• when a phrase would be clearer 
Correct: Each child handed the toy to their parent or guardian. 
Incorrect: Each child handed the toy to their parent/guardian. 
Spelling 
6.11 Preferred Spelling 
Spelling in APA Style papers should conform to the Merriam-Webster.com Dictio-
nary (https://www.merriam-webster.com). The spellings of psychological terms 
should conform to the APA Dictionary oi Psychology (https://dictionary.apa.org). 
lf a word appears differently in these two dictionaries, follow the spelling in 
the APA Dictionary oi Psychology. lf a word is not in either of these dictionaries, 
consult an unabridged edition of Websters dictionary (see https://unabridged. 
merriam-webster.com). lf the dictionary offers a choice of spellings, select one 
and use it consistently throughout your papero 
The plural forms of sorne words of Latin or Greek origin can be troublesome 
(particularly those that end in the letter "a"). A list of preferred spellings of sorne 
of the more common ones follows. 
Singular: 
Plural: 
appendix 
appendices 
criterion 
criteria 
curriculum 
curricula 
datum 
data 
phenomenon 
phenomena 

=== PDF PAGE 179 ===
162 
~ MECHANICS OF STYLE 
Remember that plural nouns take plural verbs. 
Correct: The data indicate 
Incorrect: The data indicates 
In general, form the possessive of a singular name by adding an apostrophe and , 
an "s" (e.g., "Milner's theory"). This guideline also applies when a name ends in "s" 
(e.g., "Descartes's philosophy," ''James's work"). 
The spellings of terms related to technology evolve over time. Use the follow-
ing spellings for sorne common technology words in APA Style papers:' 
email 
ebook 
ereader 
database 
data set 
smartphone 
internet 
intranet 
Wi-Fi 
website 
webpage 
the web 
horne page 
username 
login page (but "Iog in" 
emoji (for the plural, either 
when used as a verb) 
"ernoji" or "ernojis") 
6.12 Hyphenation 
Compound words- words composed of two or more words- take many forms; 
they may be written as (a) two separate words (open), (b) one hyphenated word, 
or (c) one solid word. Compound words are ofien introduced into the language 
as separate or hyphenated words; as they become more commonplace, they 
tend to fuse into a solid word. For example, "data base" has become "database," 
and "e-mail" has become "email." The dictionary is an excellent guide for choos-
ing the proper form: When a compound appears in the dictionary, its usage is 
established, and it is considered a permanent compound (e.g., "health care," 
"self-esteem," "caregiver"). In general, follow the hyphenation shown in the dic-
tionary for permanent compounds (e.g., write "health care" without a hyphen, 
even in a phrase like "health care setting"); adjust hyphenation only to prevent 
misreading. Dictionaries do not always agree on the way a compound should be 
written (open, hyphenated, or solid); Section 6.11 specifies the dictionaries to 
use for APA Style papers. 
Another form of compound-the temporary compound-is made up of 
two or more words that occur together, perhaps only in a particular paper, 
to express a thought. Temporary compounds are not usually listed in the dic-
tionary. To determine how to hyphenate temporary compounds, follow these 
guidelines: 
• If a temporary compound can be misread or expresses a single thought, 
use a hyphen, especially when the temporary compound appears as an 
adjective before the noun. When in doubt, use a hyphen for clarity. For 
example, ''Adolescents resided in two parent homes" may mean that two 
homes served as residences or that each adolescent lived with two parents; 
a hyphen in "two-parent homes" specifies the latter meaning. 
• If the compound appears after the noun it modifies, do not use a hyphen 
because, in almost all cases, the phrase is sufficientIy clear without one. See 
Table 6.1 for further examples ofhyphen use in temporary compounds. 
t-test results 
same-sex children 
but 
resu Its of ttests 
but 
children of the same sex 

=== PDF PAGE 180 ===
Spelling 
~ 163 
Table 6.1 Guide to Hyphenating Temporary Compound Terms 
Grammar guideline 
Hyphenate 
A compound with a participle when it precedes 
the term it modifies 
A phrase used as an adjective when it 
precedes the term it modifies 
An adjective-and-noun compound when it precedes 
the term it modifies 
A compound with a number as the first element 
when the compound precedes the term it modifies 
A fraction used as an adjective 
Do not hyphenate 
A compound that follows the term it modifies 
A compound including an adverb ending in "-Iy" 
A compound including a comparative ar 
superlative adjective 
Chemical terms 
Latin phrases used as adjectives or adverbs 
A modifier including a letter or numeral as the 
second element 
Fractions used as nouns 
Example 
decision-making behavior 
water-deprived animals 
Canadian-born actor 
trial-by-trial analysis 
to-be-recalled items 
one-on-one interviews 
high-anxiety group 
middle-class families 
low-frequency words 
six-trial problem 
12th-grade students 
16-min interval 
two-thirds majority 
behavior related to decision making 
students in the 12th grade 
a majority of two thirds 
widely used test 
relatively homogeneous sample 
randomly assigned participants 
better written paper 
less informed interviewers 
higher arder learning 
highest scoring students 
sodium chloride solution 
amino acid compound 
a posteriori test 
post hoc comparisons 
were fed ad lib (but hyphenate the 
adjectival form: ad-lib feeding) 
Group B participants 
Type 11 error 
Trial 1 performance 
one third of the participants 
• Write most words formed with prefixes and suffixes as one word without a 
hyphen. See Table 6.2 for examples of prefixes and suffixes that do not require 
hyphens; see Table 6.3 for examples of prefixed and suffixed words that do 
require hyphens. The same suffix may be hyphenated in sorne cases and not 
in others (e.g., "nationwide" and "worldwide" vs. "industry-wide"). 
• When two or more compound modifiers have a common base, that base 
is sometimes omitted in aH except the last modifier, but the hyphens are 
retained. Leave a space after the hyphen when the base has been omitted, 
unless punctuation foHows the hyphen. 
long- and short-term memory 
2-, 3-, and 1 O-min trials 

=== PDF PAGE 181 ===
164 ~ MECHANICS OF STYLE 
Table 6.2 Prefixes and Suffixes That Do Not Require Hyphens 
Prefix or suffix 
Example 
Prefix or suffix 
Example 
able 
retrievable 
mid 
midterm 
after 
aftercare 
mini 
minisession 
anti 
antisocial 
multi 
multimethod 
bi 
bilingual 
non 
nonsignificant 
cede/sede/ceed 
intercede 
over 
oversampling 
co 
covariate 
phobia 
agoraphobia 
cyber 
cyberwarfare 
post 
posttest 
equi 
equimax 
pre 
preexperimental 
extra 
extracurricular 
pseudo 
pseudoscience 
gram 
cardiogram 
quasi 
quasiperiodic 
infra 
infrared 
re 
reevaluate 
inter 
intersex 
semi 
semidarkness 
like 
wavelike 
socio 
socioeconomic 
macro 
macrocosm 
sub 
subtest 
mega 
megawatt 
super 
superordinate 
meta 
metaethnography 
supra 
supraliminal 
meter 
nanometer 
un 
unbiased 
micro 
microcosm 
under 
underdeveloped 
Note. However, use a hyphen in "meta-analysis" and "quasi-experimental." 
Table 6.3 Compound Words That Require Hyphens 
Occurrence 
Example 
Compounds in which the base word is 
• capitalized 
pro-Freudian 
Likert-type 
Stroop-like 
• a number 
post-1977 
• an abbreviation 
pre-UCS trial 
• more than one word 
non-achievement-oriented students 
AII "self-" compounds, whether 
self-report technique 
adjectives or nouns ' 
the test was self-paced 
self-esteem 
Words that could be misunderstood 
re-pair (pair again) 
re-form (form again) 
un-ionized (not ionized) 
Words in which the prefix ends and the 
meta-analysis 
,. 
base word begins with "a," "i," or "o" b 
anti-intellectual 
co-occur 
' But "self psychology." 
b "Pre" and "re" compounds are not hyphenated with base words beginning with "e" (e.g., 
"preexisting," "reexamine"). 

=== PDF PAGE 182 ===
Capitalization 
~ 165 
. Ca pitalization 
APA Style is a "down" style, meaning that words are lowercase unless there is 
specific guidance to capitalize them, as described in' the following sections. 
6.13 Words Beginning a Sentence 
Capitalize the following: 
• the first word in a complete sentence 
' . the first word after a colon if what follows the colon is a complete sentence 
The statement was emphatic: Further research is needed, 
Do not capitalize the following: 
• a personal name that begins with a lowercase letter when the name begins a 
sentence; alternatively, reword the sentence 
, , . after the test, van de Vijver et al. (2019) concluded 
• a proper noun (other than a personal name) that begins with a lowercase let-
ter (e.g., iPad, eBay) or a lowercase statistical term (e.g., t test, p value) when 
it begins a sentence (see Section 6.26); instead, reword the sentence to avoid 
beginning with a lowercase letter 
6.14 Proper Nouns and Trade Names 
Capitalize the following: 
• proper nouns and proper adjectives 
• names of racial and ethnic groups (see also Section 5.7) 
We interviewed 25 Black women living in rural Louisiana, 
• names of specific university departments, academic institutions, and aca-
demic courses 
Capitalize 
Department of Psychology, San Francisco 
State University 
Psychology 101 
Science of Nursing Practice 
Do not capitalize 
a psychology department, a university 
a psychology course 
a nursing course 
• trade and brand names (in general, do not include the copyright or trade-
mark symbol after a trade or brand name used in an academic paper; how-
ever, such symbols may be included in business and marketing materials) 
Capitalize 
Do ríot capitalize 
APA Style 
a writing style 
Zoloft 
sertraline (generic name for Zoloft) 
iPhone, Android phone 
smartphone 
Wi-Fi 
wireless, hotspot 

=== PDF PAGE 183 ===
166 
C\.v 
MECHANICS OF STYLE 
Do not capitalize the following: 
• proper adjectives that have a common meaning (consult a dictionary for 
guidance; see Section 6.11), except for personal names within these terms 
eustachian tube 
cesarean section 
but 
Freudian slip 
Wilks's lambda 
Euclidean geometry 
6.15 Job Titles and Positions 
Capitalize a job title or position when the title precedes a name (titles are not 
used in bylines; see Section 2.5): 
President Lincoln was elected in 1860. 
Executive Director of Marketing Carolina Espinoza led the meeting. 
Dr. Aisha Singh, Dr. Singh 
Registered Nurse Paul T. Lo, Nurse Lo 
Do not capitalize ajob title or position when the title follows the name or refers 
to a position in general: 
Abraham Lincoln was president of the United States. 
Carolina Espinoza, executive director of marketing, led the meeting. 
president, vice president, chief executive officer, executive director, manager 
professor, instructor, facu Ity, dean 
psychologist, psychiatrist, counselor, social worker 
physician, doctor, physician assistant 
nurse, registered nurse, advanced practice nurse, nurse practitioner 
6.16 Diseases, Disorders, Therapies, Theories, and Related Terms 
Do not capitalize the names of the following: 
• diseases or disorders 
autism spectrum disorder 
major depression 
• therapies and treatments 
cognitive behavior therapy 
applied behavior analysis 
diabetes 
leukemia 
immunotherapy 
cataract surgery 
• theories, concepts, hypotheses, principIes, models, and statistical procedures 
object permanence 
theory of mind 
associative learning model 
law of effect 
psychoanalytic theory 
two-group t test 
However, capitalize personal names that appear within the names of diseases, 
disorders, therapies, treatments, theories, concepts, hypotheses, principIes, 
models, and statistical procedures. 
Alzheimer's disease 
non-Hodgkin's Iymphoma 
Freudian theory 
Down syndrome 
Maslow's hierarchy of needs 
Pavlovian conditioning 

=== PDF PAGE 184 ===
Capitalization 
co.v 
167 
·6.17 Titles of Works and Headings Within Works 
APA Style uses two types of capitalization for titles of works and headings 
within works: title case and sentence case. In title case, major words are cap-
italized. In sentence case, most words are 10wercased. Nouns, verbs (including 
linking vetbs), adjectives, adverbs, pronouns, and all words of four letters or 
more are considered major words. Short (i.e., three letters or fewer) conjunc-
tions, short prepositions, and all articles are considered minor words. 
Title Case. In titlecase, capitalize the following words in a title or heading: 
.• the first word, even a minor word such as "The" 
• the first word of a subtitle, even if it is a minor word 
• the first word after a colon, em dash, or end punctuation in a heading, even if 
it is a minor word 
• major words, including the second part of hyphenated major words (e.g., 
"Self-Report," not "Self-report") 
• words offour letters or more (e.g., "With," "Between," "From") 
Lowercase only minor words that are three letters or fewer in a title or heading 
(except the first word in a title or subtitle or the first word after a colon, em dash, 
or end punctuation in a heading): 
• short conjunctions (e.g., "and;' "as;' "but," "for," "if," "nor," "or," "so," "yet") 
• articles ("a," "an," "the") 
• 
short prepositions (e.g., "as," "at," "by," "for," "in," "of," "off," "on," "per," "to," "up," 
"vía") 
When to Use Title Case. Use title case for the following: 
• titles of articles, books, reports, and other works appearing in text 
In the book Bilingualism Across the Lifespan: Factors Moderating Language Proficiency 
In the article "Media Influences on Self-Stigma of Seeking Psychological Services: The 
Importance of Media Portrayals and Person Perception " 
• titles of tests or measures, including subscales (see Section 6.18) 
Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale 
WAIS-IV Verbal Comprehension Index 
• all headings within a work (Levels 1-5; see Section 2.27) 
• the title of your own paper and of named sections and subsections within it 
the Data Analyses section 
• titles of periodicals (these are also italicized) 
Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition 
The Washington Post 
• table titles (these are also italicized; see Section 7.11) 
• figure titles (these are also italicized), axis labels, and legends (see Sections 
7.25-7.27) 

=== PDF PAGE 185 ===
168 
~ MECHANICS OF STYLE 
Sentence Case. In sentence case, lowercase most words in the title or heading. 
Capitalize only the following words: 
• the first word of the title or heading 
• the first word of a subtitle . 
• the first word after a colon, em dash, or end punctuation in a heading 
• nouns followed by numerals or letters 
• proper nouns 
When to Use Sentence Case. Use sentence case for the following: 
• titles of articles, books, reports, webpages, and other works in reference list 
entries, even iftitle case was used in the original work (see also Section 9.19) 
Golden, A R., Griffin, C. B., Metzger, l. w., & Cooper, S. M. (2018). School racial climate 
and academic outcomes in African American adolescents: The protective role of peers. 
Journal of Black Psychology, 44(1),47-73. https://doi.org/10.1177/0095798417736685 
Mena, J. A, & Quina, K. (Eds.). (2019). Integrating multiculturalism and intersectionality into 
the psychology curriculum: Strategies for instructors. American Psychological Associ-
ation. https://doi.org/10.1037/0000137-000 
• table column headings, entries, and notes (see Sections 7.12-7.14) 
• figure notes (see Section 7.28) 
Note: Words in the image of a figure (see Section 7.26) may be in either title case 
or sentence case. Follow the same guidelines for capitalization in a figure image as 
used in the texto 
6.18 Titles of Tests and Measures 
Capitalize titles of published and unpublished tests and measures and their sub-
scales. Do not capitalize words such as "test" and "scale" unless they are part of 
the test or subscale title. See Section 10.11 for more on use of italics with the 
titles of test and measures. 
Thematic Apperception Test 
Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory-2 
MMPI-2 Depression scale 
Stroop Color-Word Interference Test 
the authors' Mood Adjective Checklist 
SF-36 Physical Functioning scale 
Do not capitalize shortened, inexact, or generic titles of tests or measures. 
a vocabulary test 
Stroop-like color test 
6.19 Nouns Followed by Numerals or Letters 
Capitalize nouns followed by numerals or letters that denote a specific place in 
a series. 
Figure 3 
Appendix B 
Footnote 2 
Trials 5 and 6 
GrantAG11214 
Table 1, Row 2, Column 6 
Research Question 3 
Days 7-9 
Part 4 
Chapter 8 

=== PDF PAGE 186 ===
Capitalization 
~ 169 
. Exception: Do not capitalize the words "page" or "paragraph" before a numeral, in 
accordance with longcstanding practice. 
page 2 
paragraph 4 
Do not capitalize the following: 
• the words "numeral" or "letter" when referring to a numeral or letter as itself 
because the numeral or letter does not denote a place in a series beyond 
integers or the alphabet 
the numeral 7 
the letter "a" 
• nouns that precede a variable 
trial n and item x 
but 
Trial 3 and Item b (The number and letter are not variables.) 
• names of genes and proteins that include numerals or letters 
nuclear receptor subfamily 3, group C, member 1 
6.20 Names of Conditions or Groups in an Experiment 
Do not capitalize names of conditions or groups in an experimento 
the experimental and control groups 
participants were assigned to information and no-information conditions 
but 
Conditions A and B (see Section 6.19) 
6.21 Names of Factors, Variables, and Effects 
Capitalize names of derived variables within a factor or principal components 
analysis. The words "factor" and "component" are not capitalized unless fol-
lowed by a numeral (see Section 6.19). 
Big Five personality factors of Extraversion, Agreeableness, Openness to Experience, 
Conscientiousness, and Neuroticism 
Mealtime Behavior (Factor 4) 
Do not capitalize effects or variables unless they appear with multiplication 
signs. (Be careful not to use the term "factor" when you mean "effect" or "vari-
able," e.g., in an interaction or analysis ofvariance.) 
small age effect 
sex, age, and weight variables 
but 
Sex x Age x Weight interaction 
3 x 3 x 2 (Groups x Trials x Responses) design 
2 (methods) x 2 (item types) 

=== PDF PAGE 187 ===
170 ~ MECHANICS OF STYLE 
Italics 
6.22 Use of Italics 
Use italics for the following: 
• key terms or phrases, often accompanied by a definition 
Mindfulness is defined as "the act of noticing new things, a process that promotes flex,ible 
responding to the demands of the environment" (Pagnini et al., 2016, p. 91). 
Note: Use italics for a term or phrase only once, when it is most appropriate to draw 
readers' attention to the term or phrase; elsewhere, the term should be in standard 
(nonitalic) type. For example, if a word is used in a heading and then defined in the 
text that follows, italicize the term as part of the definition rather than in the heading. 
• titles ofbooks, reports, webpages, and other stand-alone works (see Section 
9.19) 
Concise Guide to APA Style 
• titles of periodicals (see Section 9.25) 
Cultural Diversity & Ethnic Minority Psychology 
• genera, species, and varieties 
Cebus apella 
• letters used as statistical symbols or algebraic variables 
Cohen's d = 0.084 
a/b = dd 
MSE 
• sorne test scores and scales 
Rorschaeh scores: F+%, Z 
MMPI-2 sea les: Hs, Pd 
• periodical volume numbers in reference lists 
Neuropsyehology, 30(5), 525-531. 
• anchors of a scale (but not the associated number) 
ranged from 1 (poor) to 5 (exeellent) 
rated using a Likert scale (1 = strongly disagree to 5 = stronglyagree) 
• the first use of a word, phrase, or abbreviation from another language when 
readers may not be familiar with it; however, if the term appears in a dictio-
nary for the language in which you are writing (see Section 6.11), do not use 
italics 
• gene symbols (see Section 6.31) 
NR3Cl 
Do not use italics for the following: 
• titles ofbook series (e.g., the Harry Potter series) 
• the punctuation mark after an italicized word or phrase 
What is plurality? 

=== PDF PAGE 188 ===
Italics 
~ 171 
Note: Italicize a punctuation mark that is part of an italic element, such as a colon, 
comma, or question mark within a book title, periodical title, or heading. 
Miles and Sweet's (2017) book Chicken or Egg: Who Comes First? addressed ... 
• punctuation between eIements of a reference Iist entry (e.g., the comma after 
a volume and issue number, the period after a book title) 
• words, phrases; and abbreviations of foreign origin that appear in a dictio-
nary for the Ianguage in which you are writing (see Section 6.11) 
a posteriori 
ad lib 
force majeure 
• chemical terms 
NaCl, LSD 
• trigonometric terms 
sin, tan, log 
et al. 
vis-a-vis 
zeitgeist 
a priori 
fait accompli 
per se 
mens rea 
• nonstatistical subscripts to statistical symbols or mathematical expressions 
• Greek leUers 
~,a, X2 
• leUers used as abbreviations 
reaction time (RT) 
• gene names and gene proteins (see Section 6.31) 
glucocorticoid receptor gene, GR protein 
• mere emphasis 
Incorrect: It is important to bear in mind that this process is not proposed as a stage 
theory of development. 
Note: Italics for emphasis are acceptable if emphasis might otherwise be lost or the 
material misread; in general, however, use syntax to provide emphasis. See Section 
8.31 for how to add emphasis in quoted material. Italics and bold may be used for 
emphasis in tables, depending on the requirements of the journal (e.g., to show 
factor loadings of a particular size; see Table 7.14 in Section 7.21). 
6.23 Reverse Italics 
When words that would normally be itaIicized appear within text that is aIready 
italicized, those words should be set in standard (nonitalic) type, referred to as 
reverse italicization. For exampIe, when the title of a book contains the title of 
another book, use standard type for the title within the title. In the text, use title 
case for both titIes; in the reference Iist entry, use sentence case for both titIes. 
In the following exampIe, Marinelli and Mayer wrote a book about Freud's book 

=== PDF PAGE 189 ===
172 
~ MECHANICS OF STYLE 
The Interpretation OI Dreams; Marinelli and Mayer's book title is italicized, and 
Freud's book title within it is written in standard type. 
In text: 
In Dreaming by the Book: Freud's The Interpretation of Dreams and the ' History of the 
Psychoanalytic Movement, Marinelli and Mayer (2003) explored ... 
In the reference Iist: 
Marinelli, L., & Mayer, A. (2003). Dreaming by the book: Freud's The interpretation qf 
dreams and the history of the psychoanalytic movement. Other Press. 
Abbreviations 
An abbreviation is a shortened form of a word or phrase; abbreviations of phrases 
are often composed of the first letter of each word of the phrase (Le., acronym). 
To maximize clarity, use abbreviations sparingly and consider readers' familiar-
ity with the abbreviation. 
6.24 Use of Abbreviations 
Although abbreviations can be useful for long, technical terms in scholarly writ-
ing, communication is often garbled rather than clarified if an abbreviation is 
unfamiliar to readers. In general, use an abbreviation if (a) it is conventional and 
readers are likely to be more familiar with the abbreviation than with the com-
plete form and (b) considerable space can be saved and cumbersome repeti-
tion avoided. For example, the abbreviations "L' for large and "S" for small in a 
paper describing different sequences of reward (LLSS or LSLS) would be effec-
tive and readily understood shortcuts. In another paper, however, writing about 
the "L reward" and the "S reward" might be both unnecessary and confusing. In 
most instances, abbreviating experimental group names is ineffective because 
the abbreviations are not adequately informative or easily recognizable; sorne 
are more cumbersome than the full name. For the same reason, do not use the 
abbreviations "S;' "E," and "O" for subject, experimenter, and observer in the texto 
Overuse. Sometimes the space saved by using abbreviations is not justified 
by the time necessary for readers to master the meaning, as in the following 
example: 
The advantage of the LH was clear from the RT data, which reflected high FP and FN 
rates for the RH. 
Without abbreviations, the previous passage reads as follows: 
The advantage of the left hand was clear from the reaction time data, which reflected 
high false-positive and false-negative rates for the right hand. 
Although there is no absolute limit for the use of abbreviations, writing is gen-
erally easier to understand when most words are written out rather than when 
overflowing with abbreviations. 
Underuse. In general, if you abbreviate a term, use the abbreviation at least 
three times in a paper. If you use the abbreviation only one or two times, readers 
may have difficulty remembering what it means, so writing the term out each 
time aids comprehension. However, a standard abbreviation for a long, familiar 
term is clearer and more concise even if it is used fewer than three times. 

=== PDF PAGE 190 ===
Abbreviations 
c..v 
173 
6.25 Definition of Abbreviations 
In APA Style papers, do not define abbreviations that are listed as terms in the 
dictionary (e.g., AIDS, IQ). AIso do not define measurement abbreviations (see 
Section 6.27), time abbreviations (see Section 6.28), Latin abbreviations (see 
Section 6.29), or many statistical abbreviations (see Section 6.44). Define all 
other abbreviations, even those that may be familiar to your readers (e.g., "RT" 
for reaction time or ''ANOVA'' for analysis of variance; see also Section 6.24). 
After you define an abbreviation, use only the abbreviation; do not alternate 
between spelling out the term and abbreviating it . 
. Definition in the Text. When you first use a term that you want to abbreviate in 
the text, present both the full version ofthe term and the abbreviation. 
• When the full version of a term appears for the first time in a heading, do 
not define the abbreviation in the heading; instead define the abbreviation 
when the full version next appears. Use abbreviations in headings only ifthe 
abbreviations have been previously defined in the text or if they are listed as 
terms in the dictionary. 
• When the full version of a term first appears in a sentence in the text, place 
the abbreviation in parentheses after it. 
attention-deficitlhyperactivity disorder (ADHD) 
• When the full version of a term first appears in parenthetical text, place the 
abbreviation in square brackets after it. Do not use nested parentheses. 
(i.e., attention-deficitlhyperactivity disorder [ADHD]) 
• If a citation accompanies an abbreviation, include the citation after the 
abbreviation, separated with a semicolon. Do not use nested or back-to-
back parentheses. 
Beck Depression Inventory-II (BDI-II; Beck et al., 1996) 
(Beck Depression Inventory- II [BDI-II]; Beck et al., 1996) 
Definition in Tables and Figures. Define abbreviations used in tables and fig-
ures within each table and figure, even if the abbreviations have already been 
defined in the texto The abbreviation can appear in parentheses after first use 
of the term within the table or figure, including in the table or figure title, or 
the definition can appear in atable or figure general note or a figure legend. If 
an abbreviation is used in multiple tables and figures, define it in each table or 
figure. Do not define abbreviations that do not appear in atable or figure. Do 
not define or write out standard abbreviations for units of measurement and 
statistics in atable or figure (see Sections 6.44 and 7.15). 
6.26 Format of Abbreviations 
Plural Forms. To form the plural of most abbreviations and statistical symbols, 
add a lowercase "s" alone, without an apostrophe. 
lOs 
DOls 
URLs 
Eds. 
vols. 
Ms 
ps 
ns 
ESs 
Note: To form the plural of the reference abbreviation for "page" (p.), write "pp." 
Do not add an "s" to make abbreviations for units of measurement plural. 
3 cm (not 3 cms) 
24 hr (not 24 hrs) 

=== PDF PAGE 191 ===
174 ~ MECHANICS OF STYLE 
Abbreviations Beginning a Sentence. Never begin a sentence with a lowercase 
abbreviation (e.g., lb) or with a stand-alone symbol (e.g., a). Begin a sentence 
with a symbol connected to a word (e.g., ~-Endorphins) only when necessary to 
avoid indirect or awkward phrasing. When a chemical compound begins a sen-
tence, capitalize the first letter of the word to which the symbol is connected; . 
keep the locant, descriptor, or positional prefix (i.e., Greek, small capital, and 
italic letters and numerals) intacto 
In running text: 
L-methionine 
N, N'-dimethylurea 
y-hydroxy-~-aminobutyric acid 
At beginning of sentence: 
L-Methionine 
N, N'-Dimethylurea 
y-Hydroxy-~-aminobutyric acid 
6.27 Unit of Measurement Abbreviations 
Metrication. APA uses the metric system in its journals. If you used instruments 
that record measurements in nonmetric units, report the nonmetric units fol-
lowed by the established metric equivalents in parentheses. 
Measurement in metric units: 
The rods were spaced 19 mm aparto 
Measurement in nonmetric units with the rounded metric equivalent: 
The rod was 3 ft (0.91 m) long. 
Presentation. Write out the full names of units of measurement that are not 
accompanied by numeric values. 
several kilograms 
age in years 
duration of hours 
centimeters 
Use abbreviations and symbols for units of measurement that are accompanied 
by numeric values; do not make symbols or abbreviations of units plural. 
4cm 
30kg 
12min 
18hr 
22°C 
Also use the abbreviation or symbol in column and row (stub) headings of tables 
to conserve space, even when the term appears without a numeric value. 
lag in ms 
Do not define or spell out unit of measurement abbreviations, even the first 
time they are used. See Table 6.4 for a list of abbreviations for common units of 
measurement (for statistical symbols and abbreviations, including percentages 
and money symbols, see Section 6.44). 
Capitalization and Spelling. In most cases, use lowercase letters for symbols 
(e.g., kg), even in capitalized material. However, the following are exceptions: 
• Symbols derived from the name of a person usually include uppercase letters 
(e.g., Gy). 
• Symbols for prefixes that represent powers of 10 are usually written in upper-
case letters: exa (E), peta (P), tera (T), giga (G), and mega (M). 
• Use the symbol ''e' for literwhen it stands alone (e.g., S L, 0.3 mg/L) because a 
lowercase "1" may be misread as the numeral 1 (use lowercase "1" for fractions 
of a liter: S mI, 9 ng/dl). 

=== PDF PAGE 192 ===
Abbreviations 
~ 175 
Table 6.4 Abbreviations for Common Units of Measurement 
Abbreviation 
Unit of measurement 
Abbreviation 
Unit of measurement 
A 
ampere 
m · 
meter 
A 
angstrom 
jJg 
microgram 
AC 
alternating current 
jJm 
micrometer 
Bq 
becquerel 
mA 
milliampere 
oc 
degrees Celsius 
mEq 
milliequivalent 
cc 
cubic centimeter 
meV 
million electron volts 
cd 
candela 
mg 
milligram 
Ci 
cune 
mi 
mile ' 
cm 
centimeter 
mi 
milliliter 
cps 
cycles per second 
mm 
millimeter 
dB 
decibel (specify scale) 
mM 
millimolar 
DC 
direct current 
mmHg 
millimeters of mercury 
deg/s 
degrees per second 
mmol 
millimole 
di 
deciliter 
mol 
mole 
F 
farad 
molwt 
molecular weight 
°F 
degrees Fahrenheit' 
mph 
miles per hour ' 
ft 
foot ' 
MQ 
megohm 
9 
gram 
N 
newton 
9 
gravity 
ng 
nanogram 
Gy 
gray 
nmol 
nanomole 
H 
henry 
Q 
ohm 
Hz 
hertz 
oz 
ounce ' 
in. 
inch ' 
Pa 
pascal 
IU 
international unit 
ppm 
parts per million 
J 
joule 
psi 
pounds per square inch ' 
K 
kelvin 
rpm 
revolutions per minute 
kg 
kilogram 
S 
siemens 
km 
kilometer 
Sv 
sievert 
km/h 
kilometers per hour 
T 
tesla 
kW 
kilowatt 
V 
volt 
L 
liter 
W 
watt 
lb 
pound ' 
Wb 
weber 
1m 
lumen 
yd 
yard ' 
Ix 
lux 
Note. These abbreviations do not need to be defined when they are used in a paper. 
' Include the metric unit equivalent in parentheses when using nonmetric units. 
Do not use a period after a symbol, except at the end of a sentence. An excep-
tion is to indude a period after the abbreviation for "inch" (in.), which could be 
misread without the periodo 
U se a space between a symbol and the number to which it refers (e.g., degrees, 
minutes, and seconds). An exception is the measure of angles, in which case the 
symbol is written without a space after the measurement. 
4.5 m 
6 hr 
12 oC 
but 
45 0 angle 

=== PDF PAGE 193 ===
'1 
I 
176 
C\.v 
MECHANICS OF STYLE 
Repeated Units of Measurement. Do not repeat abbreviated units of measure-
ment when expressing multiple amounts. 
16-30 kHz 
0.3, 1.5, and 3.0 mg/dl 
When reporting related statÍstics, such as means and standard deviations, 
report the unit with the main statistic but do not repeat it for the related statis-
tic(s) when the unit remains the same. 
Correct: (M = 8.7 years, SO = 2.3) 
Incorrect: (M = 8.7 years, SO = 2.3 years) 
Compound Units. Use a centered dot between the symbols of a compound 
term formed by the multiplication of units. 
Pa • s 
Use a space between the full names of units of a compound unit formed by the 
multiplication of units; do not use a centered doto 
pascal second 
6.28 Time Abbreviatíons 
To prevent misreading, do not abbreviate the words "day," "week;' "month," and 
"year," even when they are accompanied by numeric values. Do abbreviate the 
words "hour," "minute," "second;' "millisecond," "nanosecond," and any other 
division of the second when they are accompanied by numeric values. 
Term 
Abbreviation 
Example 
hour 
hr 
6 hr 
minute 
min 
30 min 
second 
s 
5 s 
millisecond 
ms 
2.65 ms 
nanosecond 
ns 
90 ns 
6.29 Latín Abbreviatíons 
Use the following standard Latin abbreviations only in parenthetical material; 
in the narrative, use the translation of the Latin termo In both cases, punctuate 
as if the abbreviation were spelled out in the language in which you are writing. 
Latin abbreviation 
Translation 
d. 
compare 
~ 
__________________ ~_fu_r_e_x_a_m~p_
le~
, ____________ _ 
, etc. 
, and so forth 
i.e., 
that is, 
viz., 
namely, 
vS. 
versus or against 
Exceptions: Use the abbreviation "v." (for "versus") in the title or name of a court 
case in the reference list and in all in-text citations (see Section 11.4). Use the 
Latin abbreviation "et al." (which means "and others") in both narrative and 
parenthetical citations (see Section 8.17). (The abbreviation "ibid." is not used 
in APA Style.) 

=== PDF PAGE 194 ===
Abbreviations 
C\Y 
177 
6.30 Chemical Compound Abbreviations 
Chemical compounds may be expressed by the common name or thechemi-
cal name. If you prefer to use the common name, provide the chemical name 
in parentheses on first mention~ Avoid expressing compounds with chemical 
formulas because these are usually less informative to readers and have a high 
likelihood ofbeing typed or typeset incorrectIy (e.g., "aspirin" or "salicylic acid," 
not "C9Hs0 4"). If names of compounds include Greek letters, retain the letters 
as symbols and do not write them out (e.g., "~ carotene," not "beta carotene"). 
If a compound name containing a Greek letter appears at the beginning of a 
sentence, capitalize the first letter of the word to which the symbol is connected 
(see Section 6.26). 
Long names of organic compounds are often abbreviated. If the abbreviation 
is listed as a term in a dictionary (see Section 6.25; e.g., "NADP" for "nicotin-
amide adenine dinucleotide phosphate"), you do not need to write it out in full 
on first use. 
Concentrations. If you express a solution as a percentage concentration instead 
of as a molar concentration, specify the percentage as a weight-per-volume ratio 
(wt/vol), a volume ratio (vol/vol), or a weight ratio (wt/wt) of solute to solvento 
The higher the concentration, the more ambiguous the expression is as a per-
centage. Specifying the ratio is especially necessary for concentrations of alco-
hol, glucose, and sucrose. Specifying the salt form is also essential for precise 
reporting of d-amphetamine HCl or d-amphetamine S04 (expression of a che m-
ical name in combination with a formula is acceptable in this case). 
12% (vol/vol) ethyl alcohol solution 
1 % (wtlvol) saccharin solution 
Routes of Administration. Abbreviate a route of administration when it is 
paired with a number-and-unit combination. Do not use periods with abbrevi-
ations for routes of administration: icv = intracerebral ventricular, im = intra-
muscular, ip = intraperitoneal, iv = intravenous, sc = subcutaneous, and so forth. 
anesthetized with sodium pentobarbital (90 mg/kg ip) 
two subcutaneous injections (not sc injections) 
6.31 Gene and Protein Name Abbreviations 
Writing about genes can be challenging. Each gene has an official full name 
and symbol, designated by the HUGO Gene Nomenclature Committee, that 
describe the gene's function or location and often the protein it produces. Use 
standard gene names found in gene databases such as those from the National 
Center for Biotechnology Information (https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/gene) 
and the HUGO Gene Nomenclature Committee (https://www.genenames. 
org/). Gene names are organism specific (e.g., human, mouse), so use an appro-
priate database. Additionally, the same gene may be known by an "alias" (or 
alternate scientific, informal, and/or historical) name and symbol. For example, 
the glucocorticoid receptor gene, which is highly implicated in the response to 
stress, has the official name "nuclear receptor subfamily 3, group C, member 1"; 
has the official symbol NR3Cl; and produces GR proteins; it is also commonly 
known as the "glucocorticoid receptor," abbreviated "GR." If a gene is known by 
more than one name or symbol, select one presentation and use it consistentIy; 

=== PDF PAGE 195 ===
178 
C\v 
MECHANICS OF STYLE 
the first time you mention a gene in your paper, you may also note the other 
name and/or symbol by which it is known to alert readers who may not be 
familiar with the designation you chose. Also state whether you are referring 
to the gene or to its protein, and use appropriate terminology (e.g., use "expres-
sion" when discussing genes and "levels" when discussing proteins). 
. 
Do not italicize gene names written out in full (e.g., corticotropin-releasing 
hormone) and gene proteins (e.g., CRH). However, do italicize gene symbols 
(e.g., CRH). It is not required to abbreviate the full name of a gene and to use 
its symbol; follow the guidelines in Section 6.24 if you are considering using an 
abbreviation for a gene. For further discussion of gene names and formatting, 
see Wain et al. (2002) and the International Committee on Standardized Genetic 
Nomenclature for Mice and Rat Genome and Nomenclature Committee (2018). 
Numbers 
In general, use numerals to express numbers 10 and above and words to express 
numbers below 10. Consider on a case-by-case basis whether to follow the gen-
eral guideline or if an exception applies. 
6.32 Numbers Expressed in Numerals 
Use numerals to express the following: 
• numbers 10 and above throughout the paper, including the abstract (for 
exceptions, see Sections 6.33- 6.34) and both cardinal and ordinal numbers 
(see Section 6.35) 
15th trial 
13 1ists 
12 models 
200 participants 
10th-grade students 
105 stimulus words 
• numbers that immediately precede a unit of measurement 
a 5-mg dose 
with 10.5 cm of 
• numbers that represent statistical or mathematical functions, fractional or 
decimal quantities, percentages, ratios, and percentiles and quartiles 
mu ltiplied by 5 
0.33 of the sample 
a ratio of 16:1 
3 times as many 
more than 5% 
the 5th percentile 
• numbers that represent time, dates, ages, scores and points on a scale, exact 
sums of money, and numerals as numerals 
5 days 
about 8 months 
4 decades 
was 2 years old 
12:30 a.m. 
scored 4 on a 7-pointscale 
1 hr 34 min 
the numeral 6 on the keyboard 
2-year-olds 
approximately 3 years ago 
ages 65-70 years 
received $5 in compensation 
• numbers that denote a specific place in a numbered series and parts ofbooks 
and tables (the noun before the number is also capitalized when it denotes a 
specific place in a series; see Section 6.19); however, when the number pre-
cedes the noun, the usual guidelines for number use apply 

=== PDF PAGE 196 ===
Numbers 
C\,y 
179 
Number after a noun 
Number before a noun 
I 
Year 1 
the 1 st year 
Grade 4, Grade 10 
the fourth grade, the 10th grade 
Items 3 and 5 
the third and fifth items 
Question 2 
the seeond question 
Table 2, Figure 5 
the seeond table, the fifth figure 
Column 8, Row 7 
the eighth eolumn, the seventh row 
Chapter 1, Chapter 12 
the first ehapter, the 12th ehapter 
Exceptions: Do not capitalize the abbreviations for page(s) or paragraph(s), even when they are fo llowed by a 
numeral (e.g., p. 3, pp. 2-5, para. 9, paras. 1-4). 
6.33 Numbers Expressed in Words 
Use words to express the following: 
• numbers zero through nine (except as described in Sections 6.32 and 6.34) in 
the text, including the abstract 
• any number that begins a sentence, title, or heading (when possible, reword 
the sentence to avoid beginning with a number) 
Forty-eight pereent of the sample showed an inerease; 2% showed no ehange. 
Twelve students improved, and 12 students did not improve. 
• common fractions 
one fifth of the class 
• universally accepted usage 
Twelve Apostles 
two-thirds majority 
Five Pillars of Islam 
6.34 Combining Numerals and Words to Express Numbers 
Use a combination of numerals and words to express back-to-back numerical 
modifiers. 
2 two-way interaetions 
ten 7-point seales 
However, if this makes the text more difficult for readers, consider rewording 
the sentence. 
6.35 Ordinal Numbers 
Treat ordinal numbers as you would cardinal numbers. 
Ordinal 
Cardinal base 
I 
seeond-order factor 
two orders 
fourth grade, 10th grade 
four grades, 10 grades 
first item of the 75th trial 
one item, 75 trials 
first and third groups 
one group, three groups 
3rd year 
3 years 
The suffixes of ordinal numbers can be presented with or without a superscript 
(e.g., either 4th or 4th ), but be consistent in presentation throughout your paper. 

=== PDF PAGE 197 ===
180 ~ MECHANICS OF STYLE 
6.36 Decimal Fractions 
Use a zero before the decimal point in numbers that are less than 1 when the 
statistic can exceed 1. 
t(20) = 0.86 
Cohen's d = 0.70 
F(1, 27) = 0.57 
0.48 cm 
Do not use a zero before a decimal fraction when the statistic cannot be greater 
than 1 (e.g., correlations, proportions, levels of statistical significance). 
r(24) = -.43, P = .028 
The number of decimal places to use in reporting the results of experiments 
and data-analytic manipulations should be governed by the following princi-
pIe: Round as much as possible while considering prospective use and statistical 
precision. As a general rule, fewer decimal digits are easier to comprehend than 
are more digits; therefore, it is usually better to round to two decimal places or 
to rescale the measurement (in which case effect sizes should be presented in 
the same metric). For instance, a difference in distances that must be carried to 
four decimals to be seen when scaled in meters can be more effectively illus-
trated in millimeters, which would require only a few decimal digits to illustrate 
the same difference. 
When properly scaled, most data can be effectively presented with two dec-
imal digits of accuracy. Report correlations, proportions, and inferential statis-
tics such as t, F, and chi-square to two decimals. When reporting data measured 
on integer scales (as with many questionnaires), report means and standard 
deviations to one decimal place (as group measures, they are more stable than 
individual scores). Report exact p values (e.g., p = .031) to two or three deci-
mal places. However, report p values less than .001 as p < .001. The tradition of 
reporting p values in the form of p < .10, p < .05, p < .01, and so forth was appro-
priate in a time when only limited tables of critical values were available. How-
ever, in tables the "p <" notation may be necessary for clarity (see Section 7.14). 
For guidance on the types of statistics to report in your paper, see the reporting 
standard s for quantitative methods and results (Sections 3.6-3.7). 
6.37 Roman Numerals 
If Roman numerals are part of an established terminology, do not change them 
to Arabic numerals. For example, use "Type 11 error," not "Type 2 error." Use 
Arabic numerals for routine seriation (e.g., Step 1, Experiment 2, Study 3). 
6.38 Commas in Numbers 
Use commas between groups of three digits in most figures of 1,000 or more. 
Some exceptions are as follows: 
Category 
Example of exception 
page numbers 
page 1029 
binary digits 
00110010 
serial numbers 
290466960 
degrees of temperature 
3414 oC 
acoustic frequency designations 
2000 Hz 
degrees of freedom 
F(24, 1000) 

=== PDF PAGE 198 ===
Statistical and Mathematical Copy 
~ 181 
·6.39 Plurals of Numbers 
To form the plurals of numbers, whether expressed as numerals or as words, 
add "s" or "es" alone, without an apostrophe. 
twos and sixes 
the 19605 
305 and 405 
Statistical and Mathematical Copy 
APA Style for presenting statistical and mathematical copy reflects (a) the stan-
dards of content and form agreed on in the field and (b) the requirements of 
clear communication. The Publication Manual addresses standard s for presen-
tation only; it do es not provide guidance on how to choose statistics, conduct 
analyses, or interpret results. Consult a statistics reference work or a statistician 
for help if needed. 
6.40 Selecting Effective Presentation 
Statistical and mathematical copy can be presented in text, in tables, and/or 
in figures. In deciding which approach to take, follow these general guidelines: 
o If you need to present three or fewer numbers, first try using a sentence. 
o If you need to present four to 20 numbers, first try using atable. 
o If you need to present more than 20 numbers, first try using a figure. 
Select the mode of presentation that optimizes readers' understanding of the 
data. Detailed displays that allow fine-grained understanding of a data set may 
be more appropriate to include in supplemental materials (see Section 2.15) 
than in the print version of an article. However, editors publish tables and fig-
ures at their discretion; they may also request new tables and figures. 
6.41 References for Statistics 
Do not provide a reference for a statistic in common use (e.g., Cohen's d); this 
convention applies to most statistics used in journal articles. Provide a refer-
ence when (a) less common statistics are used, (b) a statistic is used in an uncon-
ventional or controversial way, or (c) the statistic itself is the focus of the papero 
6.42 Formulas 
Do not provide a formula for a statistic in common use; however, provide a for-
mula when the statistic or mathematical expression is new, rare, or essential to 
the papero The presentation of equations is described in Sections 6.46 and 6.47. 
6.43 Statistics in Text 
When reporting inferential statistics (e.g., t tests, F tests, chi-square tests, 
and associated effect sizes and confidence intervals), include sufficient infor-
mation to allow readers to fully understand the analyses conducted. The 
data supplied, preferably in the text but possibly in supplemental materials 
depending on the magnitude of the data arrays, should allow readers to con-
firm the basic reported analyses (e.g., cell means, standard deviations, sample 
sizes, correlations) and should enable interested readers to construct sorne 
effect-size estimates and confidence intervals beyond those supplied in the 

=== PDF PAGE 199 ===
182 ~ MECHANICS OF STYLE 
paper per se. In the case of multilevel data, present summary statistics for 
each level of aggregation. What constitutes sufficient information depends on 
the analytic approach reported. 
F ratios: 
For immediate recognition, the omnibus test of the main effect of sentence format was 
significant, F(2, 177) = 6.30, P = .002, est w2 = .07. 
t values: 
The one-degree-of-freedom contrast of primary interest was significant at the specified p 
< .05 level, t(177) = 3.51, P < .001, d = 0.65, 95% el [0.35, 0.95]. 
Hierarchical and other sequential regression statistics: 
High school GPA predicted college mathematics performance, R2 = .12, F(1, 148) = 
20.18, P < .001, 95% el [.02, .22]. 
If you present descriptive statistics in atable or figure, do not repeat them in 
the text, although you should (a) mention the table in which the statistics can be 
found in the text and (b) emphasize particular data in the text when they aid in 
the interpretation of the findings. 
When enumerating a series of similar statistics, be certain that the relation 
between the statistics and their referents is clear. Words such as "respectively" 
and "in order" can clarify this relationship. 
Means (with standard deviations in parentheses) for Trials 1-4 were 2.43 (0.50), 2.59 
(1.21),2.68 (0.39), and 2.86 (0.12), respectively. 
When reporting confidence intervals, use the format 95% el [LL, UL], where 
LL is the lower limit of the confidence interval and UL is the upper limito Every 
report of a confidence interval must clearly state the level of confidence. How-
ever, when confidence intervals are repeated in a series or within the same 
paragraph, the level of confidence (e.g., 95%) has remained unchanged, and the 
meaning is clear, do not repeat "95% el." 
95% Cls [5.62, 8.31], [-2.43, 4.31], and [-4.29, -3.11], respectively 
When a confidence interval follows the report of a point estimate, do not repeat 
the units of measurement. 
M = 30.5 cm, 99% el [18.0, 43.0] 
6.44 Statistical Symbols and Abbreviations 
Symbols and abbreviations are often used for statistics (e.g., "mean" is abbre-
viated "M"). Table 6.5 contains common statistical abbreviations and symbols. 
• Do not define symbols or abbreviations that represent statistics (e.g., M, SD, 
F, t, dj, p, N, n, OR, r) or any abbreviations or symbols composed of Greek 
letters (e.g., a, ~, ;e) in Table 6.5. 
• However, define the other abbreviations in Table 6.5 (e.g., Ale, ANOVA, Ble, 
eFA, el, NFI, RMSEA, SEM) when they are used anywhere in your paper (see 
Sections 6.25 and 7.14-7.15). 
Some terms are used as both abbreviations and symbols. Use the abbreviation 
when referring to the concept and the symbol when specifying a numeric value. 
The symbol form will usually be either a non-English letter or an italicized 

=== PDF PAGE 200 ===
Statistical and Mathematica l Co py 
C\\.J 
183 
, Table 6.5 Statistical Abbreviations and Symbols 
Abbreviation 
or symbol 
a 
AIC 
ANCOVA 
ANOVA 
AVE 
b, b; 
b*, b~ 
BIC, aBIC 
CAT 
CDF 
CFA 
CFI 
CI 
d 
d' 
df 
DIF 
EFA 
EM 
ES 
f 
fe 
fo 
F 
F(v" V2) 
Fcrit 
Fmax 
FDR 
FIML 
9 
GFI 
GLM 
GLS 
Ha 
H, (or Ha) 
HLM 
HSD 
IRT 
Definition 
Eng/ish character set 
in item responsetheory, the slope parameter 
Akaike information criterion 
analysis of covariance 
analysis of variance 
average value explained 
in regression and multiple regression analyses, estimated values of raw 
(unstandardized) regression coefficients; in item response theory, the 
difficulty-severity parameter 
estimated values of standardized regression coefficients in regression and 
multiple regression analyses 
Bayesian information criterion, sample-size-adjusted Bayesian information 
criterion 
computerized adaptive testing 
cumulative distribution function 
confirmatory factor analysis 
comparative fit index 
confidence interval 
Cohen's measure of sample effect size for comparing two sample means 
discriminability, a measure of sensitivity in signal detection theory 
degrees of freedom 
differential item functioning 
exploratory factor analysis 
expectation maximization 
effect size 
frequency 
expected frequency 
observed frequency 
F distribution; Fisher's F ratio 
F with v, and V2 degrees of freedom 
critical value for statistical significance in an F test 
Hartley's test of homogeneity of variance 
false discovery rate 
full information maximum likelihood 
Hedges's measure of effect size 
goodness-of-fit index 
generalized linear model 
generalized least squares 
null hypothesis, hypothesis under test 
alternative hypothesis 
hierarchicallinear model(ing) 
Tukey's honestly significant difference 
item response theory 

=== PDF PAGE 201 ===
184 
C\.v 
MECHANICS OF STYLE 
Table 6.5 Statistical Abbreviations and Symbols (continued) 
Abbreviation 
or symbol 
k 
KR20 
LGC 
LL 
LR 
LSD 
M (orX) 
MANOVA 
MANCOVA 
MCMC 
Mdn 
MLE 
MLM 
MS 
MSE 
n 
N 
NFI, NNFI 
ns 
OLS 
OR 
P 
prep 
PDF 
q 
Q 
rab.c 
r a(b.c) 
r b 
R 
R2 
RMSEA 
s 
s 
Definition 
coefficient of alienation; number of studies in a meta-analysis; number of 
levels in an experimental design or individual study 
coefficient of nondetermination 
Kuder-Richardson reliability index 
latent growth curve 
lower limit (as of a CI) 
likelihood ratio 
least significant difference 
sample mean; arithmetic average 
multivariate analysis of variance 
multivariate analysis of covariance 
Markov chain Monte Cario 
median 
maximum likelihood estimator; maximum likelihood estimate 
multilevel model(ing) 
mean square 
mean square error 
number of cases (generally in a subsample) 
total number of cases 
normed fit index, nonnormed fit index 
not statistically significant 
ordinary least squares 
odds ratio 
probability; probability of a success in a binary trial 
probabilitya replication would give a result with the same sign as the original 
result 
probability density function 
probability of a failure in a binary trial; 1 - P 
test of homogeneity of effect sizes 
estimate of the Pearson product-moment correlation coefficient 
partial correlation of a and b with the effect of c removed 
partial (or semipartial) correlation of a and b with the effect of c removed from b 
coefficient of determination; measure of strength of relationship; estimate of 
the Pearson product-moment correlation squared 
biserial correlation 
point biserial correlation 
Spearman rank-order correlation 
multiple correlation 
multiple correlation squared; measure of strength of association 
root-mean-square error of approximation 
sample standard deviation (denominator ~ 
) 
sample variance-covariance matrix 

=== PDF PAGE 202 ===
Statistical and Mathematical Copy 
~ 185 
. Table 6.5 Statistical Abbreviations and Symbols (continued) 
Abbreviation 
or symbol 
SD 
SE 
SEM 
SEM 
SRMR 
SS 
F 
TU 
u 
UL 
v 
w 
WLS 
z 
a (alpha) 
f3 (beta) 
B (capital beta) 
1 (capital 
gamma) 
() (delta) 
b. (capital delta) 
E2 (epsilon-
squared) 
112 (eta-squared) 
8k (theta k) 
El (capital 
theta) 
K (kappa) 
A (lambda) 
Definition 
sámple variance (unbiased estimator) - denominator n - 1 
sample variance (biased estimator) - denominator n 
standard deviation 
standard error 
standard error of measurement; standard error of the mean 
structural equation model(ing) 
standardized root-mean-square residual 
sum of squares 
Student's t distribution; a statistical test based on the Student t distribution; 
the sample value of the t-test statistic 
Hotelling's multivariate test for the equality of the mean vector in two multi-
variate populations 
generic effect-size estimate 
Tucker-Lewis index 
Mann-Whitney test statistic 
upper limit (as of a CI) 
Pillai-Bartletl multivariate trace criterion; Cramér's measure of association in 
contingency tables 
fixed-effects weights 
random-effects weights 
Kendall's coefficient of concordance and its estimate 
weighted least squares 
a standardized score; the value of a statistic divided by its standard error 
Greek character set 
in statistical hypothesis testing, the probability of making a Type I error; 
Cronbach's index of intemal consistency (a form of reliability) 
in statistical hypothesis testing, the probability of making a Type II error (1 - f3 
denotes statistical power); population values of regression coefficients (with 
appropriate subscripts as needed) 
in SEM, matrix of regression coefficients among dependent constructs 
Goodman-Kruskal's index of relationship; 1, matrix of regression coefficients 
between independent and dependent constructs in SEM 
population value of Cohen's effect size; noncentrality parameter in hypothesis 
testing and noncentral distributions 
increment of change 
measure of strength of relationship in analysis of variance 
measure of strength of relationship 
generic effect size in meta-analysis 
Roy's multivariate test criterion; El, matrix of covariances among measurement 
errors in SEM 
Cohen's measure of agreement corrected for chance agreement 
element of a factor loading matrix; Goodman-Kruskal measure of predictability 

=== PDF PAGE 203 ===
186 ~ MECHANICS OF STYLE 
Table 6.5 Statistical Abbreviations and Symbols (continued) 
Abbreviation 
or symbol 
/\ (capital 
lambda) 
f.I (mu) 
v (nu) 
P (rho) 
PI (rho 1) 
o (sigma) 
0 2 (sigma-
squared) 
L (capital 
sigma) 
T (tau) 
</> (phi) 
CD (capital phi) 
X2 (chi-squared) 
41 (capital psi) 
w2 (omega-
squared) 
la I 
L (capital 
sigma) 
Definition 
Wilks's multivariate test criterion; /\, matrix of factor loadings in SEM 
population mean; expected value 
degrees of freedom 
population product-moment correlation 
population intraclass correlation 
population standard deviation 
population variance 
population variance-covariance matrix 
Kendall's rank-order correlation coefficient; Hotelling's multivariate trace criterion 
standard normal probability density function 
measure of association in contingency tables; standard normal cumulative 
distribution function; CD, matrix of covariances among independent constructs 
in SEM 
the chi-square distribution; a statistical test based on the chi-square 
distribution; the sample value of the chi-square test statistic 
in statistical hypothesis testing, a statistical contrast; 41, matrix of covariances 
among prediction errors in SEM 
strength of a statistical relationship 
Mathematical symbo/s 
absolute value of a 
summation 
Note. It is acceptable to use the form e5t(8) or e to indicate an e5timator or e5timate of the para meter 8. 
English letter. Most abbreviations can be turned into symbols (for use when 
reporting numerical estimates) by simply italicizing the abbreviation. 
Note: Some quantitative approaches (e.g ., structural equation modeling) use multiple 
notation systems; any notation system is acceptable as long as it is used consistently. 
If you use a notation system other than the one shown in Table 6.5, identify it for read-
ers. Do not mix notation systems within a papero 
As with all aspects of paper preparation, ensure that there are no ambiguities 
that could lead to errors in final production, particularly with mathematical 
and statistical symbols, unusual characters, and complex alignments (e.g., sub-
scripts, superscripts). Avoid misunderstandings and corrections by preparing 
mathematical copy carefully. 

=== PDF PAGE 204 ===
Statistical and Mathematical Copy 
C\.v 
187 
Symbols Versus Words. When using a statistical term in narrative text, use 
the term, not the symbol. For example, state "the means were" not "the Ms 
were." When using a statistícal term in conjunction with a mathematical 
.1
1
operator, use the symbol or abbreviatíon. For example, write "(M = 7.74)," not 
"(mean = 7.74)." 
Symbols for Population Versus Sample Statistics. Population parameters are 
usually represented by Greek letters. Most estimators are represented by ital-
icized Latín letters . For example, the population correlation would be repre-
sented as p, and the estimator would be represented as r; est(p) and pare also 
acceptable. Some test statistics are represented by italicized Latín letters (e.g., t 
and F), and a few are represented by Greek letters (e.g., n. 
Symbols for Number of Subjects. Use an uppercase, italicized N to designate 
the number of members in the total sample (e.g., N = 135). Use a lowercase, ital-
icized n to designate the number of members in a limited portion or subsample 
ofthe total sample (e.g., n = 80 in the treatment group). 
Symbols for Percentage and Currency. Use the percent symbol and currency 
symbols only when they are accompanied by a numeral; also use them in table 
headings and in figure labels and legends to conserve space. Use the word "per-
centage" or the name of the currency when a number is not given. Repeat the 
symbol for a range of percentages or quantities of currency. 
18%-20% 
determined the percentage 
$10.50, f10, €9.95, \(100-\(500 
in Australian dollars, in U.S. dollars 
Standard, Bold, and Italic Type. Statistical symbols and mathematical informa-
tion in papers are prepared with three different type styles: standard (roman), 
bold, and italic. The same type style is used in text, tables, and figures. 
• Use standard type for Greek letters, subscripts and superscripts that function 
as identifiers (i.e., are not variables, as in the subscript "girls" in the example 
that follows), and for abbreviations that are not variables (e.g., log, GLM, WLS). 
• Use bold type for symbols for vectors and matrices. 
V,r. 
• Use italic type for all other statistical symbols. 
N, Mx' df. SSE, MSE, t, F 
On occasion, an element may serve as both an abbreviation and a symbol (e.g., 
SD); in this case, use the type style that reflects the function of the element (see 
Table 6.5). 
6.45 Spacing, Alignment, and Punctuation for Statistics 
Space mathematical copy as you would space words: a+b=c is as difficult to read 
as wordswithoutspacing. Instead, type a + b = c. For a minus sign indicating sub-

=== PDF PAGE 205 ===
188 
~ MECHANICS OF STYLE 
traction, use a space on each side of the sign (e.g., z - y = x); for a minus sign 
indicating a negative value, use a space before but not after the sign (e.g., - 8.25). 
Note: A minus sign is a differe·nt typographical character than a hyphen (it is longer 
and slightly higher); your word-processing program has options for inserting a minus 
sign in your papero 
A.lign signs and symbols carefully. Use the subscript and superscript functions 
ofyour word-processing programo In most cases, type subscripts first and then 
superscripts (x/ ). However, place a subscript or superscript such as the sym-
bol for prime right next to its letter or symbol (x'a). Because APA prefers to 
align subscripts and superscripts one under the other ("stacking") for ease of 
reading instead of setting one to the right of the other ("staggering"), if you are 
publishing an article that includes statistics in an APAjournal, your subscripts 
and superscripts will be stacked when they are typeset. If subscripts and super-
scripts should not be stacked, indicate this in a cover letter or in the manuscript. 
Presentation of Equations 
Punctuate all equations, whether they are in the line of text or displayed (i.e., 
typed on a separate line), to conform to their place in the syntax of the sentence 
(see the period following Equation 3 in Section 6.47). lf your paper will be type-
set and you have an equation that exceeds the column width of a typeset page, 
indicate in the accepted manuscript where breaks would be acceptable. 
6.46 Equations in Text 
Place short and simple equations, such as a = [( 1 + b) / x 1 
1/2, in the line of texto 
To present fractions in the line of text, use a slash (1). To make the order of oper-
ations in an equation visually unambiguous, use parentheses, square brackets, 
and braces (together referred to as "fences"). Use parentheses first to enclose 
material; use square brackets to enclose material already in parentheses; and 
use braces (curly brackets) to enclose material already in square brackets and 
parentheses: first ( ), then [( )], and finally {[( )]). 
Equations in the Hne of text should not project aboye or below the line; for 
example, the equation at the beginning of this section would be difficult to set in 
the line of text if it were in this form: 
a=~1 :b 
lnstead, such equations are displayed on their own line (see Section 6.47). 
6.47 Displayed Equations 
Display simple equations if they must be numbered for later reference. Display 
all complex equations. Number all displayed equations consecutively, with the 
number in parentheses near the right margin of the page. 
Wj ± Z,_aJ2 ÓWj" 
(3) 

=== PDF PAGE 206 ===
List s 
~ 189 
, W hen referring to numbered equations, include the full word "equation" (e.g., 
"Equation 3" or "the third equation," not "Eq. 3"). 
6.48 Preparing Statistical and Mathematical Copy for Publicatión 
Display all mathematical signs and symbols in typed form, when possible. lf 
a character cannot be produced by your word-processing program, insert it 
as an image. Type fences (i.e., parentheses, brackets, and braces), uppercase 
and lowercase letters, punctuation, subscripts and superscripts, and all other 
elements exactly as you want them to appear in the published article. 
Lists 
6.49 List Guidelines 
Just as heading structure alerts readers to the order of ideas in a paper, 
seriation-that is, lists-helps readers understand a related set of key points 
within a sentence or paragraph. In a series, all items should be syntactically 
and conceptually parallel (see Section 4.24 for a more detailed discussion of 
parallelism). 
When a list within a sentence contains three or more items, use a serial 
comma before the final item (see also Section 6.3). 
Partieipants were similar with respeet to age, gender, and ethnicity. 
However, if any item in a list of three or more items already contains commas, 
use semicolons instead of commas between the items (see Section 6.4). 
We were interested in how students describe their gender identities and expressions; their 
pereeptions of emotional and physieal safety on campus, including whether and how sueh 
pereeptions impaet their gender expression; and their pereeptions of trans-affirming ver-
sus trans-negative reaetions among fellow students and faeulty. 
6.50 Lettered Lists 
Within a sentence or paragraph narrative, identify elements in a series with 
lowercase letters in parentheses when doing so will help readers understand 
the separate, parallel items in a complex listo Lettered lists may also be used 
to draw attention to the items-but not as much attention as a numbered or 
bulleted listo Use commas or semicolons between items as described in Sec-
tion 6.49. 
Our sample organization used a waterfall model that featured the following sequential 
stages: (a) requirements analysis, (b) speeifieation, (e) arehiteeture, (d) design, and (e) 
deployment. 
We tested three groups: (a) low seorers, who scored fewer than 20 points; (b) moderate 
seorers, who seo red between 20 and 50 points; and (e) high seorers, who scored more 
than 50 points. 
6.51 Numbered Lists 
Use a numbered list to display complete sentences or paragraphs in a series 
(e.g., itemized conclusions, steps in a procedure). Use a lettered or bulleted 
list rather than a numbered list if the items are phrases. Use the numbered 
list function of your word-processing program to create the numbered list; 

=== PDF PAGE 207 ===
190 
C\.v 
MECHANICS OF STYLE 
this will automatieally indent the list as well. Select the option for an Arabic 
numeral followed by a period but not enclosed in or followed by parentheses. 
Capitalize the first word after the number (and the first word in any subse-
quent sentence), and end eaeh sentence with a period or otherpunetuation 
as appropriate. 
We addressed the following research questions: 
1. What research methodologies are used to examine the effects of cultural competerícy 
training? 
2. How are psychologists trained to be culturally competent? 
3. How are training outcomes assessed? 
4. What are the outcomes of cultural competency training? 
6.52 Bulleted Lists 
The use of a numbered list may connote an unwanted or unwarranted ordinal 
position (e.g., chronology, importanee, priority) among the items. To aehieve 
the same effect without the implication of ordinality, use bullets to identify the 
items in the series. Use the bulleted list funetion ofyour word-processing pro-
gram to create the bulleted list; this will automatieally indent the list as well. 
Symbols su eh as small circles, squares, dashes, and so forth may be used for the 
bullets. When an article aceepted for publieation is typeset, the bullet symbol 
will be changed to the style used by that j ournal. 
Items That Are Complete Sentenees. If bulleted list items are complete sen-
tences, begin eaeh sentence with a eapitalletter and finish it with a period or 
other end punetuation. 
There are several ways in which psychologists could apply social-media-driven methods 
to improve their work: 
• 
Social psychologists could use these methods to improve research on emotional 
experiences. 
• 
Community psychologists could use these methods to improve population assessment 
atthe city level. 
• 
Clinical psychologists could use these methods to improve assessment or treatment. 
Items That Are Phrases. If bulleted list items are phrases or sentence fragments 
(i.e., not full sentenees), begin each bulleted item with a lowercase letter (for 
exeeptions, such as proper nouns, see Sections 6.14-6.21). There are two options 
for punetuating a bulleted list in whieh the items are phrases or fragments. 
Phrases Without End Punctuation. The first option is to use no punctuation after 
the bulleted items (including the final one), which may be better when the items 
are shorter and simpler. 
Some strategies used by faculty of color in the United States for survival and success on 
the tenure track include the following: 
• 
learning the rules of the game 
• 
being aware of who possesses power 
• 
working doubly hard 
• 
emphasizing one's strengths and establishing some authority 
• 
finding White allies (Lutz et al., 2013; Turner et al., 2011) 

=== PDF PAGE 208 ===
Lists 
~ 191 
, Phrases With End Punctuation. The second option is to insert punctuation after 
the bulleted items as though the bullets were not there, following the guidelines 
in Sections 6.3 and 6.4 forcomma and semicolon usage; this option may be bet-
ter when the items are longer or more complexo 
Adolescents may crave the opportunities for peer connection that social media affords 
beca use it allows them to 
• 
communicate privately with individual s or publicly with a larger audience, 
• 
seek affirmation by posting pictures or commentary and receiving likes or comments, 
• 
see how their numbers of friends and followers compare with those of their peers, and 
• 
monitor who is doing what with whom by seeing how many peers like and comment on 
their posts and comparing the feedback they get with what others received (Underwood 
& Ehrenreich, 2017). 
Items That Contain Both Phrases and Sentences. When bulleted items contain 
both phrases and sentences (as with a list of definitions in a glossary), various 
formats are possible, but the presentation should be consistent and logical. One 
approach is to lowercase the word or phrase at the beginning of the bullet in 
bold, followed by a colon. If what follows the colon is a sentence fragment, low-
ercase the first word after the colon. 
• creativity: the ability to produce or develop original work, theories, techniques, or 
thoughts. 
Use a period after a sentence fragment when an additional sentence follows the 
fragment; otherwise, the punctuation after the fragment is optional. 
• goal: the end state toward which a human or nonhuman animal is striving. It can 
be identified by observing that an organism ceases or changes its behavior upon 
attaining this state, 
If what follows the colon is a complete sentence, capitalize the first word after 
the colon and end the sentence with a period or other end punctuation. 
• problem solving: Individuals use problem solving to attempt to overcome difficul-
ties, achieve plans that move them from a starting situation to a desired goal, or 
reach conclusions through the use of higher mental functions, such as reasoning and 
creative thinking. 

=== PDF PAGE 209 ===

=== PDF PAGE 210 ===
Contents 
General Guidelines for Tables and Figures 
7.1 Purpose ofTables and Figures 
195 
7.2 Design and Preparation of Tables and Figures 
195 
7.3 Graphical Versus Textual Presentation 
196 
7.4 Formatting Tables and Figures 
197 
7.5 Referring to Tables and Figures in the Text 
197 
7.6 Placement of Tables and Figures 
198 
7.7 Reprinting or Adapting Tables and Figures 
198 
Tables 
7.8 Principies of Table Construction 
199 
7.9 Table Components 
199 
7.10 Table Numbers 200 
7.11 Table Titles 
201 
7.12 Table Headings 
201 
7.13 Table Body 202 
7.14 Table Notes 203 
7.15 Standard Abbreviations in Tables and Figures 
205 
7.16 Confidence Intervals in Tables 
205 
7.17 Table Borders and Shading 
205 
7.18 Long orWide Tables 
206 
7.19 Relation Between Tables 
206 
7.20 Table Checklist 206 
7.21 Sample Tables 
206 
Figures 
7.22 Principies of Figure Construction 
225 
7.23 Figure Components 
225 
7.24 Figure Numbers 
227 
7.25 Figure Titles 
227 
7.26 Figure Images 227 
7.27 Figure Legends 229 
7.28 Figure Notes 229 
7.29 Relation Between Figures 
230 
7.30 Photographs 230 
7.31 Considerations for Electrophysiological, Radiological, Genetic, 
and Other Biological Data 
230 
7.32 Electrophysiological Data 
231 
7.33 Radiological (Imaging) Data 
231 
7.34 Genetic Data 
231 
7.35 Figure Checklist 232 
7.36 Sample Figures 
233 
195 
199 
225 
! 

=== PDF PAGE 211 ===
7 
TABLES ANO FIGURES 
Tables and figures enable authors to present a large amount of information 
efficiently and to make their data more comprehensible. Tables usually show 
numerical values (e.g., means and standard deviations) or textual information 
(e.g., lists of stimulus words, responses from participants) arranged in an orderly 
display of columns and rows. A figure may be a chart, graph, photograph, draw-
ing, or any other illustration or non textual depiction. At times, the boundary 
between tables and figures may be unclear; in general, tables are characterized 
by a row-column structure, and any type of illustration or image other than a 
table is considered a figure. In this chapter, we discuss the purpose of tables 
and figures; principIes for designing, preparing, placing, and reproducing them; 
and guidelines for creating and formatting tables and figures in APA Style, with 
examples of various types. 
General Guidelines for Tables and Figures 
7.1 Purpose of Tables and Figures 
The primary purpose of any table or figure is to facilitate readers' understanding 
ofthe work. For example, tables and figures can be used to summarize informa-
tion (e.g., a theoretical model, qualities of studies included in a meta-analysis), to 
present the results of exploratory data analysis or data mining techniques (e.g., a 
factor analysis), to estimate sorne statistic or function (e.g., a nomograph), or to 
share full trial-Ievel data (for more on data sharing, see Section 1.14). Although 
tables and figures attract attention, they should not be used for mere decoration 
in an academic papero Instead, every table and figure should serve a purpose. 
7.2 Design and Preparation of Tables and Figures 
When preparing atable or figure, first determine the purpose of the display 
and the relative importance of that purpose (see Section 7.1); then, select a 
195 

