=== PDF PAGE 253 ===
Sample Figures 
C\V 
'237 
Figure 7.5 Sample CONSORT Flow Diagram 
Figure 7.5 
caNsaRT Flowchort of Participants 
[ 
Enrollment 
1 
l 
Assessed for eligibility (n = 100) I 
ExcJuded (n = 30) 
• Oid not meet incJusion criteria (n = 21) 
I 
• Oeclined to participate (n = 9) 
I 
I Randomized In = 701 I 
J 
1 
1 
J 
Allocation 
1 
l 
JAllocated to intervention (n = 21) 
Allocated to intervention (n = 49) 
• Received allocated intervention (n = 49) 
• Received allocated intervention (n = 21) 
• Oid not receive allocated intervention (n = O) 
• Oid not receive allocated intervention (n = O) 
1 
r 
Follow·Up 
1 
1 
Lost to follow-up (n = O) 
Lost to follow-up (n = O) 
Oiscontinued intervention (n = 4) 
Oiscontinued intervention (n = O) 
• Withdrew voluntarily (n = 4) 
Completed intervention and follow-up (n = 21) 
Completed intervention and follow-up (n = 45) 
1 
J 
Analysis 
1 
1 
Ana Iyzed (n - 41) 
Analyzed (n - 21) 
• Exc!uded from analysis (n = 4) 
• ExcJuded from analysis (n = O) 
o Unusable data (excessive motion; n = 2) 
o Unable to complete scan (insufficient 
compatible corrective lenses; n = 1) 
o No Icnger met inc1usion criteria (emergent 
psychosis at follow-up; n = 1) 

=== PDF PAGE 254 ===
238 
~ TABLES AND FIGURES 
Figure 7.6 Sample Conceptual Model 
Figure 2 
Integrated Child and Yauth Behaviaral Health System 
\ , I Ot her community systems 
Early 
, 
Indicated or , 
Treatment 
high-risk 
\~ prevention 
Selective or\ 
elevated risk 
Targeted 
prevention 
intervention 
Health sector 
Screening 
Child or youth 
andfamily 
offered in other 
community 
settings 
Treatment, 
ongoing 
support, 
monitoring 
Information, data sharing, and electronic health records 
Policy and service system coordination 
Financing 
Other 
activities 
Note. This model shows that the integrated ehild and youth behavioral health system is eentered on the ehild 
or youth and family and ¡neludes promation; prevention; screening; and treatment, ongoing support, and monitoring 
both in the health sector and in other community systems. This structure is supported by information systems, 
policy and service system coordination, and financing, which are shown in rectangles beneath the ovals to 
illustrate this support. 

=== PDF PAGE 255 ===
,Figure 7.7 Sample Structural Equation Model 
Figure 2 
Structural Equation Mode! Predictihg Chi!dren's Cognitive Functioning 
24 Months 
36 Months 
54 Months 
Child 
Withdrawal 
, ' 
, ' 
" \ , , '. 
.37"" 
\ 
.84'" 
" ., . ' . ' 
Enthusiasm 
Persistence 
Sample Figures 
Grade 1 
Note. This structural equation model predicts children's cognitive functioning from mothers' early depressive symptoms, with 
mediating effects of child withdrawal and mastery motivation. Statistics are standardized regression coefficients. Maternal 
depression is averaged across 6, 15, and 24 months. Dotled lines represent nonsigniftcant relations; bold lines represent 
significant indirect paths. SSRS = Social Skills Rating System. 
"p < .01. "'p < .001. 
C\\.> 
239 

=== PDF PAGE 256 ===
240 
C\\.I 
TABLES AND FIGURES 
Figure 7.8 Sample Confirmatory Factor Analysis Results Figure 
Figure 2 
Second-Order Conftrmatory Factor Analysis for Study 2 
.89 
8 
T 
88B 88B 88B 
T 
T 
T 
T 
T 
T 
T 
T 
T 
.52 
.23 
.17 
.28 
.34 
.51 
.31 
.19 
.29 
.42 
.28 
.24 
Note. Items are numbered in the arder presented in the texto Al! modeled correlations and path coefficients are 
significant (p < .05). 
Figure 7.9 Sample Path Model 
Figure 1 
Path Analysis Model of Associanons Between ASMC and Body-Related Constructs 
Body Esteem 
l~ 
Appearance-Related 
E 
Social Media 
Consciousness (AsMC) 
Body Comparison "? ~" 
Time spent on Social 
Media 
Body surveillance 
Note. The path analysis shows associations between ASMC and endogenous body-related variables (body esteem, 
body comparison, and body surveillance), controlling for time spent on social media. Coefficients presented are 
standardized linear regression coefficients. 
'''p < .001. 
-

=== PDF PAGE 257 ===
,Figure 7.10 Sample Qualitative Research Figure 
Figure 1 
Organizatianal Framewark far Racial Micraaggressians in the Warkplace 
I 
Racial 
microaggressions 
Processes 
Coping 
strategies 
Racial microaggressions in the workplace 
~ 
• 
Enviranmental 
Stereotypes of Black women 
Assumed universality of the 
Black experience 
• 
Invisibility 
• 
Exclusion 
~ 
I 
Perception of racial 
microaggressions 
/ 
Reactions to racial 
microaggressions -----
Consequences and 
impact of racial 
microaggressions 
/ 
• 
Religion and spirituality 
• Armoring 
• 
Shifting 
• 
Support network 
• 
Sponsorship and mentorship 
• 
Self-care 
Sample Figures 
C\y 
I 

=== PDF PAGE 258 ===
242 ~ TABLES AND FIGURES 
Figure 7.11 Sample Mixed Methods Research Figure 
Figure 1 
A Multistage Paradigm for Integrative Mixed Methods Research 
Qualitative Textual Evidence 
G) 
G) 
0 
G) 
G) 
Stages c:=:> 
Design 
Collection 
Conversion 
Analysis 
Interpretation 
TheOry(p 
Open-
Recording: 
Transcription, 
Content 
Analvsis of 
ended 
written, 
translation, 
analvsis, 
quotations, 
questions 
audiol 
generative 
thematic 
storv lines 
Construct 
video 
thematic 
variables 
Traditionalism 
categories 
• Cultural 
T~ 
traditionalism 
coding 
11 , 
Re-
• Familv 
contextualization 
traditionalism 
• Rurallifestyle 
Item 
analysis 
lS 
Descri ptive 
Model 
Items, 
Responses 
Codes, 
analvses, 
sea les 
to survevs 
scales 
multivariate 
interpretation 
analvses 
Quantitative Numeric Evidence 
Note. ltems are numbered in the arder presented in the text. AII modeled correlations and path coefficients are 
significan! (p < .05). 
G) 
Integration 
Integrative 
analvsis, 
drawing of 
conclusions 

=== PDF PAGE 259 ===
F,igure 7.12 Sample IIlustration of Experimental Setup 
Figure 7 
Design of Experiment 7 
Experiment 7A: Test 
Who changed her choice? 
Experiment 7B: Control 
Who changed her choice? 
• 
Note. Children watched two puppets-one who knew about the unobservable set of stairs 
and one who did not-choose the tomato over the corn (high-cost choice in Experiment 
7A and low-cost choice in Experiment 7B). Children then learned that one puppet 
changed her choice after opening the door and were asked to ¡nter who that was. 
Figure 7.13 Sample IlIustration of Experimental Stimuli 
Figure 4 
Examples af Stimuli Used in Experiment 1 
Note. Stimuli were computer-generated cartaon bees that varied on tour binary dimensions, tor 
a total 01 16 unique stimuli. They had two or six legs, a striped or spotted body, single or double 
wings, and antennae or no antennae. The two stimuli shown here demonstrate the use of opposite 
values on all tour binary dimensions. 
Samp)e Figures 
C\.v 
243 

=== PDF PAGE 260 ===
244 
C\.v 
TABLES AND FIGURES 
Figure 7.14 Sample Map 
Figure 1 
Poverty Rote in the United Sto tes, 2017 
Percentage of people 
in poverty 
18.0 or more 
16.0 to 17.9 
13.0 to 15.9 
11.0 to 12.9 
Less than 110 
U.S. percentage is 13.4 
.... 
.: 
Note. The U.s. percentage does not inelude data for Puerto Rico. Adapted from 2017 Poverty Rote in the United Stotes, by U.S. 
Census Bureau, 2017 (https:/lwww.census.gov/library/viSUalizationsI2018/comm/acs-poverty-map.html). In the public domain. 
example copyright 
attribution for an 
adapted figure in 
the public domain 

=== PDF PAGE 261 ===
Sample Figures 
Figure 7.15 Sample Scatterplot 
Figure 2 
Association Between Perceptuo/Speed and Empathic Pattern Accuracy for Happiness 
1.2 
• -
Women 
:;¡ 
1.0 
O 
Men 
Q) 
e 
'0. 
o. 
0.8 
ro 
I 
~ 
o o 
.E 
0.6 
> 
u 
o 
ro 
. 
:; 
0.4 
· 0 
u 
u « 
u 
',p 
0.2 
ro 
..c 
o. 
E 
0.0 
lJ.J 
-0.2 
10 
20 
30 
40 
50 
60 
70 
Digit Symbol Seore 
Note. Each dot represents an individual participant. Scores for empathic pattern accuracy for happiness were 
obtained in a zero-order multilevel model in which a target's self-reported happiness was the only predictor 
of a rater's perceptions (the estimate plotted on the y-axis is equivalent to 131i in Equation 4). Among men, 
higher levels of digit symbol performance were associated with higher empathic pattern accuracy for happi-
ness in daily life (gray linel. Among women, the association was not significant (black linel. 
C\.Y 
245 

=== PDF PAGE 262 ===
246 
C\.V 
TABLES AND FIGURES 
Figure 7.16 Sample Multidimensional Scaling Figure 
Figure 3 
Two-Oimensiona/ So/utian Oerived From Mu/tidimensiana/ Sca/ing af Re/atedness Scores 
N 
e 
.Q 
V> 
e 
<lJ 
E 
O 
2.0 
ONonmoral 
1.5 
1.0 
0.5 
oPurity 
0.0 
O Fairness 
O 
Authorityo O 
Liberty 
Counternormative 
-0.5 
Loyalty .pCare 
-1.0 
-3 
-2 
- 1 
Dimension 1 
Note. Relatedness scores were defined as the mean Iikelihood judgment within category pairs. Violations 
of care, authority, fairness, and loyalty and counternormative actions are quite clase tD one another in the 
resultant two-dimensional space, whereas liberty violations, and especially purity violations and nonmoral 
actions, are more distant. Model stress was .08. 

=== PDF PAGE 263 ===
, Figure 7.17 Sample Photograph 
Figure 1 
Example Scenes 01 Participant Response to Locations 01 Schema-Irrelevant Objects 
Note. Top panel: A version ofthe kitchen $cene using schema-irrelevant objects (walking boots, 
bath towel, and teapot) in unexpected locanons (right side 01 the fioor, rail beneath table, and 
stool, respecnvely). Middle panel: One 01 the possible test images (out 01 two) associated with the 
study image depicted in the top panel used in Study 1 (shift-to-expected condinon). Bottom panel: 
Example participant response when the participant originally studied the image in the top panel 
in the recall task of 5tudy 2. Schema-relevant objects in expected places at study are the metal pot 
and toaster; those in unexpected places are the microwave and teapot; those not present are the 
Iruit bowl and paper towel roll. 
Sample Figures 
C\.v 
247 
1, 

=== PDF PAGE 264 ===
248 ~ TABLES AND FIGURES 
Figure 7.18 Sample Complex Multipanel Figure 
Figure 2 
Application 01 the Bayesian Mixture Model to Example 1 
A 
B 
O 
350 
en 300 
al 
::l 250 
ro 
> 200 
Q.150 
'O 
. 100 
O 
Z 
50 
g 1.0 
:c 
<1l 
.8 
.D e 
o... 
.6 
E 
al 
.4 
E 
e 
C) 
.¡¡¡ 
.2 
en 
<X: 
I 
.0 
15 
~ 
.¡¡; 
e 
Q) 10 
O 
O 
:2 
'" 
O 
Q. 
O 
1.1 
.00 
.01 
.02 
.03 
.04 
.05 
Significant p Values 
R:1 
Effective N: 2,500 
' C 
.05 
en 
~ .04 
~ 
<1l .03 
::l 
._~.,._-
o 
"O .02 
~ 
ii .01 
Q) o: .00 
1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 
Iteration 
E 
E 1.0 
Q) 
95% 
E 
f-----i 
e 
.8 
j 
C) 
.¡¡; 
'" 
<X: 
.6 
I 
-~ 
.4 
:c .2 
<1l 
.D e 
o... 
.0 
.2 
.4 
.6 
.8 
1.0 
Ho Assignment Rate 
.00 
.01 
.02 
.03 
.04 
.05 
Observed p Value Quantiles 
.01 
.02 
.03 
.04 
.05 
Significant p Values 
Note. Example 1 contained 587 Hest p values. Panel A: Distribution 01 observed p values. Panel B: Trace 
plot olthe Markov chain Monte Cario chains lor the Ho assignment rateo Panel C: Q-Q plot lor comparing 
the observed p value distribution with the posterior predictive distribution. Panel D: Posterior distribution 
of the Ha assignment rateo Panel E: Individual Ha assignment probabilities. 

=== PDF PAGE 265 ===
Figure 7.19 Sample Event-Related Potential Figure 
Figure 1 
Centroporietol Late Positive Potentiol as a Function ofTrustworthiness 
A 4.00 
3.00 
> 
2: 2.00 
C1I 
'tl 
~ 
Q. 
E 1.00 
<1: 
0.00 
-1 .00 +----r-r---r-----.-.------.-r---r-----.-,-----.-,---, 
-100 
100 
300 
500 
Time (ms) 
700 
900 
1,100 
Sample Figures 
B 
Note. Panel A: Event-related potential waveforms for untrustworthy (gray line) and trustworthy (black line) faces. 
Panel B: Display ofthe scalp topographies for untrust worthy as compared with trustworthy faces in the selected time 
window (500-800 ms). 
Figure 7.20 Sample fMRI Figure 
Figure 3 
Brain Regions Sensitive to Ratings of Dehumanization, Liking, and Similarity to the Self 
Note. Srain regions where activity is sensitive to parametric ratings of dehumanization (blue), liking (red), and similarity to the 
self (green) are shown. Dehumanization and liking are thresholded at p < .05, corrected; similarity is thresholded at p < .001, 
uncorrected. IFe = inferior frontal cortex; IPe = inferior parietal cortex; pe = precuneus; PCC:;; posterior cingulate cortex; MPFC 
= medial prefrontal cortex. 
C\.v 
249 

=== PDF PAGE 266 ===
250 
C\Y 
TABLES AND FIGURES 
Figure 7.21 Sample Display of Genetic Material (Physical Map) 
Figure 1 
Microduplicotions Encompassing NFlfor Subjects With Oligonucleotide Microarray Analysis 
Sublecl1 
Sublec12 
Subject 4 
. 1,. 
~ . ' 
Subject5 
Sublect6 
Subject 7 
.~ 
NF,"fttP8 .. 
CI 
-
Type 1,1 .4 Mb 
"olmC 
.. - . 
o 
_
____ Type 2, l .2 Mb -----~ 
_----- "",3. 1.0Mb ---~ 
¡n l" 
Note. Six subjects had microduplications encompassing NF1. For all microarray plots, probes are arranged on the x-axis 
according to physical mapping positions, with the most proximal 17qll.2 probes on the left and the most distal 17qll.2 probes 
on the right. Va[ues along the y-axis represent IOg2 ratios of subject: control signal intensities. Genes in the duplication region 
are shown underneath the plots as purple boxes. The yellow boxes represent the blocks 01 low-copy repeats in the region, with 
colored arrow5 corresponding to areas of homology among the low-copy repeats. Identical colors correspond to homologous 
regions. The sizes ofthe three types of NFl microdeletions are shown, with nonallelic homologous recombination between the 
red arrows leading to Type 1, brown to Type 2, and green to Type 3. From "NF1 Microduplications: Identification 01 Seven 
Nonrelated Individuals Provides Further Characterization 01 the Phenotype," by K. J. Moles, G. C. Gowans, S. Gedela, D. 
Beversdorl, A. Yu, L. H. Seaver, R. A. Schultz, J. A. Rosenleld, B. S. Torchia, and L. G. Shaffer, 2012, Genetics in Medicine, 14(5), 
p. 509 (https://doLorg/10.1038/gim.2011.46). Copyright 2012 by the American College 01 Medical Genetics and Genomics. 
Reprinted with permission. 

=== PDF PAGE 267 ===

=== PDF PAGE 268 ===
Contents 
General Guidelines for Citation 
253 
8.1 Appropriate Level of Citation 
253 
8.2 Plagiarism 
254 
8.3 Self-Plagiarism 
256 
8.4 Correspondence Between Reference 
List and Text 
257 
8.5 Use of the Published Version or 
Archival Version 
258 
8.6 Primary and Secondary Sources 
258 
Works Requiring Special Approaches 259 
to Citation 
8.7 Interviews 
259 
8.8 Classroom or Intranet Sources 
259 
8.9 Personal Communications 260 
In-Text Citations 
261 
8.10 Author-Date Citation System 
261 
8.11 Parenthetical and Narrative 
Citations 
262 
8.12 Citing Multiple Works 
263 
8.13 Citing Specific Parts of a Source 
264 
8.14 Unknown or Anonymous Author 264 
8.15 Translated, Reprinted, Republished, 
and Reissued Dates 
265 
8.16 Omitting the Year in Repeated 
Narrative Citations 265 
8.17 Number of Authors to Include in 
In-Text Citations 266 
8.18 Avoiding Ambiguity in In-Text 
Citations 
267 
8.19 Works With the Same Author and 
Same Date 
267 
8.20 Authors With the Same Surname 
267 
8.21 Abbreviating Group Authors 
268 
8.22 General Mentions of Websites, 
Periodicals, and Common Software 
and Apps 
268 
Paraphrases and Quotations 
269 
8.23 Principies of Paraphrasing 
269 
8.24 Long Paraphrases 
269 
8.25 Principies of Direct Ouotation 
270 
8.26 Short Ouotations (Fewer Than 
40 Words) 
271 
8.27 Block Ouotations (40 Words or 
More) 
272 
8.28 Direct Ouotation of Material 
Without Page Numbers 
273 
8.29 Accuracy of Ouotations 
274 
8.30 Changes to a Ouotation Requiring 
No Explanation 
274 
8.31 Changes to a Ouotation Requiring 
Explanation 
275 
8.32 Ouotations That Contain Citations 
to Other Works 
276 
8.33 Ouotations That Contain Material 
Already in Ouotation Marks 
277 
8.34 Permission to Reprint or Adapt 
Lengthy Ouotations 277 
8.35 Epigraphs 
277 
8.36 Ouotations From Research 
Participants 
278 

=== PDF PAGE 269 ===
8 
WORKS CREDITED IN THE TEXT 
Scientific knowledge represents the accomplishments of many researchers over 
time. A critical part of writing in APA Style is helping readers place your contri-
bution in context by citing the researchers who influenced you. 
In this chapter, we provide the ground rules for acknowledging how others 
contributed to your work. General guidance for in-text citation is presented 
first, including how to provide an appropriate level of citation and avoid pla-
giarism and self-plagiarism in your writing. Specific guidance for in-text cita-
tion follows, including formats for interviews, classroom and intranet sources, 
and personal communications; in-text citations in general; and paraphrases and 
direct quotations. 
General Guidelines for Citation 
8.1 Appropriate Level of Citation 
Cite the work of those individuals whose ideas, theories, or researchhave 
directly influenced your work. The works you cite provide key background 
information, support or dispute your thesis, or offer critical definitions and data. 
Cite only works that you have read and ideas that you have incorporated into 
your writing. Cite primary sources when possible and secondary sources spar-
ingly (see Section 8.6). In addition to crediting the ideas of others that you used 
to develop your thesis, provide documentation for all facts and figures that are 
not common knowledge. Both paraphrases (see Sections 8.23-8.24) and direct 
quotations (see Sections 8.25-8.35) require citations. If you reprint or adapt a 
table or figure (e.g., if you reproduce an image from the internet, even if it was 
free or in the Creative Commons) or reprint a long quotation or commercially 
copyrighted test item, you may also need to seek permission from the copyright 
holder and provide a copyright attribution (see Sections 12.14-12.18). 
253 

=== PDF PAGE 270 ===
254 ~ WORKS CREDITED IN THE TEXT 
The number of sources you cite in your paper depends on the purpose of 
your work. For most papers, cite one or two of the most representative sourees 
for each key point. Literature review papers, however, typieally include a more 
exhaustive list of references; given that the purpose of the paper is to acquaint 
readers with everything that has been written on the topie. 
Avoid both undercitation and overcitation. Undercitation can lead to plagia-
rism (see Section 8.2) and/or self-plagiarism (see Section 8.3). Even when sourees . 
cannot be retrieved (e.g., because they are personal communications; see Section 
8.9), you still need to credit them in the text (however, avoid using online sourees 
that are no longer recoverable; see Section 9.37). Overcitation can be distraeting 
and is unnecessary. For example, it is considered overcitation to repeat the same 
citation in every sentence when the souree and topic have not changed. Instead, 
when paraphrasing a key point in more than one sentence within a paragraph, 
cite the source in the first sentence in which it is relevant and do not repeat 
the citation in subsequent sentences as long as the source remains clear and 
unchanged (see Section 8.24). When the author's name appears in the narrative, 
the year ean be omitted in repeated eitations under certain circumstances (see 
Section 8.16). Figure 8.1 provides an example of an appropriate level of citation. 
8.2 Plagiarism 
Plagiarism is the act of presenting the words, ideas, or images of another as your 
own; it denies authors or creators of content the credit they are due. Whether 
deliberate or unintentional, plagiarism violates ethical standards in scholar-
ship (see APA Ethics Code Standard 8.11, Plagiarism). Writers who plagiarize 
disrespect the efforts of original authors by failing to acknowledge their contri-
butions, stifle further research by preventing readers from tracing ideas back 
to their original sources, and unfairly disregard those who exerted the effort 
to complete their own work. Writers who try to publish plagiarized work face 
Figure 8.1 Example of an Appropriate Level of Citation 
Humor plays an important role in everyday life, from interacting w ith strangers to attracting 
mates (Bressler & Balshine, 2006; Earleywine, 2010; Tornquist & Chiappe, 2015). Some people, 
however, come up with funny and witty ideas much more easily than do others. In this study, 
we examined the role of cognitive abilities in humor production, a topic w ith a long past 
(e.g., Feingold & Mazzella, 1991; Galloway, 1994) that has recently attracted more attention 
(Greengross & Miller, 2011; Kellner & Benedek, 2016). Humor production ability is measured w ith 
open-ended tasks (Earleywine, 2010), the most common of w hich involves asking participants to 
write captions for single-panel cartoons (for a review, see Nusbaum & Silvia, 2017). 
Note. The authors have provided citations to representative sources for each new idea in the texto Common knowledge . 
(here, the idea that some people come up with funny ideas more easily than do others) does not require a citation. 

=== PDF PAGE 271 ===
General Guidelines for Citation 
~ 255 
rejection from publication and possible censure in their place of employment. 
Students who plagiarize may fail the assignment or course, be placed on aca-
demic probation, or be expelled from their institution (see also Section 1.17). 
To avoid plagiarism, provide appropriate credit to the source when·ever you 
do the following: 
• paraphrase (i.e., state in your own words) the ideas of others (see Sections 
8.23-8.24) 
• directly quotethe words of others (see Sections 8.25-8.35) 
• refer to data or data sets (see Section 10.9) 
• reprint or adapt atable or figure, even images from the internet that are free 
or licensed in the Creative Commons (see Sections 12.14- 12.18) 
• reprint a long text passage or commercially copyrighted test item (see Sec-
tions 12.14-12.18) 
For most works, appropriate credit takes the form of an author-date citation 
(see Section 8.10). However, according to U.S. copyright law, authors who wish 
to reprint or adapt tables, figures, and images or to reprint long quotations or 
commercially copyrighted test items (see Section 12.15) must provide more 
comprehensive credit in the form of a copyright attribution (see Section 12.18) 
and may need permission from the copyright holder to use the material s (see 
Section 12.17). 
The necessity for credit extends to the ideas of others as well. For example, 
authors should credit the originators of theories they refer to in their paper. 
lf authors model a study after one conducted by someone else, the author of 
the original study should be given credit. lf the rationale for a study was sug-
gested in someone else's article, that person should be given credit. Given the 
free exchange of ideas, which is important to the health of intellectual discourse, 
authors may not be able to pinpoint exactly where the idea for their study origi-
nated. They should make their best effort to find and acknowledge the source(s), 
including any personal communications (see Section 8.9). 
Although many cases of plagiarism are straightforward (e.g., passages of text 
copied from another source without attribution), other cases are more challeng-
ing to evaluate. Usually, using incorrect citations (e.g., misspelling an author's 
name, forgetting or mistyping an element in a reference list entry, or citing a 
source in the text that do es not have a corresponding reference list entry) is 
not considered plagiarism if the error is minor and attributable to an editorial 
oversight rather than an intentional attempt to steal someone's ideas or obfus-
cate the origin ofthe information (Cooper, 2016). However, such errors may still 
result in deductions on an academic assignment or a request for revision of a 
manuscript submitted for publication. 
Publishers and educators may use plagiarism-checking software (e.g., iThen-
ticate, Turnitin) to identify cases in which entire papers have been copied, pas-
sages of specified lengths match, or a few words have been changed but content 
is largely the same (the latter is known as patchwriting; see Merriam-Webster, 
n.d.-a). However, human review is often necessary to determine whether pla-
giarism has actually taken place. Take careful notes as you research and write 
to keep track of and accurately cite your sources. Check your work carefully to 
ensure that you acknowledge the words and ideas of others with citations in the 
text that have corresponding reference list entries. 

=== PDF PAGE 272 ===
256 
~ WORKS CREDITED IN THE TEXT 
Unethical writing practices other than plagiarism are also prohibited. For exam-
pIe, it is unethical to fabricate citations and/or reference list entries. This practice 
gives the appearance of properly credited sources, but the sources are fictitious or 
untraceable; the author may have made up the information as well as the sources, 
or the information may come from real works that have not been credited. ,Like-
wise, contract cheating, in which students hire another person to write a paper for 
them, is unethical. Even when the resulting work is original (i.e., not plagiarized), 
these students still take credit for work that they did not do themselves, which 
violates academic integrity policies, honor codes, and ethics codeso 
8.3 Self-Plagiarism 
Self-plagiarism is the presentation of your own previously published work as 
original; like plagiarism, self-plagiarism is unethical. Self-plagiarism deceives 
readers by making it appear that more information is available on a topic than 
really exists. It gives the impression that findings are more replicable than is 
the case or that particular conclusions are more strongly supported than is 
warranted by the evidence. It may lead to copyright violations if you publish 
the same work with multiple publishers (sometimes called duplicate publication; 
see Section 1.16). 
Sorne institutions may consider it self-plagiarism if a student submits a paper 
written for one class to complete an assignment for another class without per-
mission from the current instructor; using the same paper in multiple classes 
may violate the academic integrity policy, honor code, or ethics code of the uni-
versity. However, incorporating previous classwork into one's thesis or disser-
tation and building on one's own existing writing may be permissible; students 
who wish to do this should discuss their ideas with their instructor or advisor 
and follow their university's honor code, ethics code, or academic policies when 
reusing their previous work. 
In specific circumstances, authors may wish to duplicate their previously 
used words without quotation marks or citation (e.g., in describing the details of 
an instrument or an analytic approach), feeling that extensive self-referencing is 
undesirable or awkward and that rewording may lead to inaccuracies. When the 
duplicated material is limited in scope, this approach is permissible. 
When the duplication is more extensive, authors should cite the source of 
the duplicated material. What constitutes the maximum acceptable length of 
duplicated material is difficult to define but must conform to legal notions of 
fair use (see Section 12.17). General guidelines for using an acceptable amount 
of duplicated material are as follows: 
• Ensure that the core of the new document constitutes an original contribu-
tion to knowledge in that 
-
only the amount of previously published material necessary to understand 
that contribution is included and 
-
the material appears primarily in the discussion of theory and methodology. 
• Place all duplicated material in a single paragraph or a few paragraphs, when 
feasible, with a citation at the beginning or end of each paragraph. Introduce 
the duplicated material with a phrase such as "as I have previously discussed." 
Do not use quotation marks or block quotation formatting around your own 
duplicated material. 

=== PDF PAGE 273 ===
General Guidelines far Citatian 
~ 257 
• W hen you reanalyze your own previously published data, such as in a large-
scale, longitudinal, or multidisciplinary project, provide sufficient informa-
tion about the projectso that readers can evaluate the current report but do 
not repeat every detail ofthe design and method. Find a balance that involves 
referring readers to the earlier work using citations. 
If a manuscript will receive masked review (see Section 12.7), you may need to 
conceal references to your previous work until the manuscript is ready for pub-
lication. To conc~al your previous work, omit the relevant entries from the ref-
erence list and indicate in the text where citations will be reinstated after the 
review process by including "citation omitted," or similar, in parentheses. 
An exception to the prohibition against self-plagiarism is publishing a work 
of limited circulation in a venue of wiaer circulation. For example, authors 
may publish their doctoral dissertation or master's thesis in whole or in part 
in one or more journal articles. In such cases, authors would not cite their 
dissertation or thesis in the article text but rather acknowledge in the author 
note that the work was based on their dissertation or thesis (see Section 2.7). 
Similarly, an article based on research the authors described in an abstract 
published in a conference program or proceeding do es not usually constitute 
duplicate publication; the author should acknowledge previous presentation 
of the research in the article's author note (see the author note of the sample 
professional paper in Chapter 2 as an example). Seek clarification from the 
j ournal editor or course instructor if you are concerned about duplicate pub-
lication or self-plagiarism. 
8.4 Correspondence Between Reference List and Text 
APA Style uses the author-date citation system (see Section 8.10), in which a 
brief in-text citation directs readers to a full reference list entry. Each work cited 
in the text must appear in the reference list, and each work in the reference list 
must be cited in the texto Ensure that the spelling of author names and the publi-
cation dates in the reference list entries match those in the in-text citations. The 
date element of a reference list entry may include the month, season, and/or 
day in addition to the year; however, the corresponding in-text citation includes 
only the year (see, e.g., Example 15 in Chapter 10). 
There are a few exceptions to these guidelines: 
• Personal communications, which are unrecoverable sources, are cited in the 
text only (see Section 8.9). 
• General mentions of whole websites or periodicals (see Section 8.22) and 
common software and apps (see Section 10.10) in the text do not require a 
citation or reference list entry. 
• The source of an epigraph do es not usually appear in the reference list (see 
Section 8.35). 
• Quotations from your research participants can be presented and discussed 
in the text but do not need citations or reference list entries (see Section 8.36). 
• References included in a meta-analysis, which are marked with an asterisk in 
the reference list, may be cited in the text (or not) at the author's discretion 
(see Section 9.52). 

=== PDF PAGE 274 ===
258 ~ WORKS CREDITED IN THE TEXT 
8.5 Use of the Published Version or Archival Version 
Multiple versions of the same work might coexist on the internet, and you 
should cite the version of the work you used. Ideally, use and cite.the final, pub-
lished version of a work (see Chapter 10, Examples 1-3). However, if you used 
the advance online version (see Chapter 10, Example 7), the in-press versión ' 
(see Chapter 10, Example 8), or the final peer-reviewed manuscript accepted 
for publication (but before it was typeset or copyedited; see Chapter 10, Exam-
pIe 73), cite that version. The final peer-reviewed manuscript as accepted for 
publication might be available from a variety of places, ineluding a personal 
website, an employer's server, an institutional repository, a reference manager, 
or an author social network. 
Informally published works, such as those in a preprint archive (e.g., 
PsyArXiv) or an institutional repository or databas e (e.g., ERIC), can also be 
cited (see Chapter 10, Examples 73-74) when these are the version used. Draft 
manuscripts (unpublished, in preparation, or submitted) can be cited when the 
draft is the most current version of the work (see Chapter 10, Examples 70-72). 
When you cite a draft manuscript, in-press artiele, advance online publication, 
or informally published work in your paper, ensure you have the most up-
to-date publication information for these works and update the reference list 
entry if necessary before you submit your paper. Publishers label advance 
online publications in various ways (e.g., "online first publication," "advance 
online publication," "epub ahead of print"); standardize this label to "advance 
online publication" for an APA Style reference list entry (see Chapter 10, 
Example 7). 
8.6 Primary and Secondary Sources 
In scholarly work, a primary source reports original content; a secondary source 
refers to content first reported in another source. Cite secondary sources -
sparingly-for instance, when the original work is out of print, unavailable, 
or available only in a language that you do not understand. If possible, as a 
matter of good scholarly practice, find the primary source, read it, and cite it 
directly rather than citing a secondary source. For example, rather than citing 
an instructor's lecture or a textbook or encyelopedia that in turn cites original 
research, find, read, and cite the original research directly (unless an instructor 
has directed you to do otherwise). 
When citing a secondary source, provide a reference list entry for the sec-
ondary source that you used. In the text, identify the primary source and then 
write "as cited in" the secondary source that you used. If the year of publication 
of the primary source is known, also inelude it in the texto For example, if you 
read a work by Lyon et al. (2014) in which Rabbitt (1982) was cited, and you were 
unable to read Rabbitt's work yourself, cite Rabbitt's work as the original source, 
followed by Lyon et al.'s work as the secondary source. Only Lyon et al.'s work 
appears in the reference listo 
(Rabbitt, 1982, as cited in Lyon et al., 2014) 
Ifthe year ofthe primary source is unknown, omit it from the in-text citation. 
Allport's diary (as cited in Nicholson, 2003) 

=== PDF PAGE 275 ===
Works Requ iring Special Approaches to Citation 
C\v 259 
Works Requiring Special Approaches to Citation 
8.7 Interviews 
An interview is a dialogue or an exchange of information between people. Inter-
views used as sources can be elassified into three categories: published inter-
views, personal interviews, and research participant interviews. 
• Published interviews appear in a variety of places- for example, in a maga-
zine, newspaper, recorded radio broadcast, podcast episode, YouTube video, 
TV show, or transcript of a video or audio recording. To cite a published inter-
view, follow the format for the reference type (e.g., magazine artiele, podcast 
episode, radio broadcast; see Chapter 10, Examples 15 and 95, for interviews 
published in a magazine artiele and a digital archive, respectively). The person 
being interviewed will not necessarily appear in the author element of the 
reference; when this is case, integrate the person's name into the narrative of 
the sentence if desired (see Chapter 10, Example 88). 
• Personal interviews are those you conduct as a means of obtaining informa-
tion to support a key point in your paper (e.g., an email to an author inquir-
ing about their published work). Because readers cannot recover this type of 
interview, cite it as a personal communication (see Section 8.9). 
• Research participant interviews are those you conducted as part of your 
methodology. They do not require a citation in APA Style because you do 
not cite your own work in the paper in which it is being first reported. How-
ever, information gathered from research participant interviews can be pre-
sented and discussed in a paper according to the guidelines in Section 8.36. 
8.8 Classroom or Intranet Resources 
Sorne works are recoverable only by certain audiences, which determines how 
they are cited. For example, a student writing a paper for a course assignment 
might cite works from the elassroom website or learning management system 
(LMS; e.g., Canvas, Blackboard, Brightspace, Moodle, Sakai), or an employee 
might cite resources from the company intranet when writing an internal com-
pany report. These sources are recoverable by the instructor and fellow students 
or by other employees of the company but not the general publico 
When the audience you are writing for can retrieve the works you used, cite 
the works using the formats shown in Chapter 10, which are organized accord-
ing to reference group and category. For example, to cite a recorded lecture 
or PowerPoint presentation available from a elassroom website or LMS for 
a student assignment, follow the format shown in Chapter 10, Example 102. 
The so urce element of these references ineludes the name of the elassroom 
website or LMS and the URL (which for sites requiring users to log in should 
be the homepage or login page URL). Likewise, for a report on a company 
intranet, follow the report formats shown in Section 10.4. However, if the work 
is for professional publication or intended for a wider audience who will not 
have access to these sources, cite the sources as personal communications 
(see Section 8.9). 

=== PDF PAGE 276 ===
260 ~ WORKS CREDITED IN THE TEXT 
8.9 Personal Communications 
Works that cannot be recovered by readers (i.e., works without a source ele-
ment; see Section 9.4) are cited in the text as personal communicati9ns. Personal 
communications include emails, text messages, online chats or direct messages, 
personal interview8, telephone conversations, live speeches, unrecorded classc 
room lectures, memos, letters, messages from nonarchived discussion groups 
or online bulletin boards, and so on. 
Use a personal communication citation only when a recoverable source is 
not available. For example, if you learned about a topic via a classroom lec-
ture, it would be preferable to cite the research on which the instructor based 
the lecture. However, if the lecture contained original content not published 
elsewhere, cite the lecture as a personal communication. When communica-
tions are recoverable only in an archive (e.g., a presidentiallibrary), cite them 
as archival materials (see the APA Style website at https://apastyle.apa.org for 
more). Do not use a personal communication citation for quotes or information 
from participants whom you interviewed as part of your own original research 
(see Section 8.36). 
Citing Personal Communications in the Text. Because readers cannot retrieve 
the information in personal communications, personal communications are 
not included in the reference list; they are cited in the text only. Give the ini-
tial( s) and surname of the communicator, and provide as exact a date as possi-
ble, using the following formats: 
Narrative citation: E.-M. Paradis (personal communication, August 8, 2019) 
Parenthetical citation: (T. Nguyen, personal communication, February 24, 2020) 
Citing Traditional Knowledge or Oral Traditions of Indigenous Peoples. 
The manner of citing Traditional Knowledge or Oral Traditions (other terms -
are "Traditional Stories" and "Oral Histories") of Indigenous Peoples varies 
depending on whether and how the information has been recorded- only 
certain cases use a variation of the personal communication citation. If the 
information has been recorded and is recoverable by readers (e.g., video, 
audio, interview transcript, book, article), cite it in the text and include a ref-
erence list entry in the correct format for that type of source (see Section 
10.12, Example 90, for a recording on YouTube; see Section 10.13, Example 95, 
for a recorded interview). 
Examine published works carefully (especially older works) to ensure 
that the information about Indigenous Peoples is accurate and appropriate 
to share before citing those works. Likewise, work closely with Indigenous 
people to ensure that material is appropriate to publish (e.g., sorne stories 
are told only at certain times of year or by certain people and may not be 
appropriate to publish in a journal article) and that your wording accurately 
mirrors and maintains the integrity of their perspectives (see Younging, 2018, 
for more on the nature of collaboration with Indigenous people). Likewise, 
because Indigenous cultural heritage belongs to Indigenous Peoples in per-
petuity, matters concerning copyright and authorship may arise depending 
on the scope and nature of the material being presented (see Younging, 2018, 
for more). 

=== PDF PAGE 277 ===
In-Text Citations 
~ 261 
. Capitalize most terms related to Indigenous Peoples. These include names of spe-
dfie groups (e.g., Cherokee, Cree, Ojibwe) and words related to Indigenous culture 
(e.g., Creation, the Creator, Elder, Oral Tradition, Traditional Knowledge, Vision Quest). 
The capitalization is intentional and demonstrates respect for Indigenous perspectives 
(for more, see International Journal of Indigenous Health, n.d.; Younging, 2018). 
To describe Traditional Know1edge or Oral Traditions that are not recorded 
(and therefore are not recoverable by readers), provide as much detail in the 
in-text citation as is necessary to describe the content and to contextualize the 
origin of the information. Because there is no-recoverable source, a reference 
list entry is not used. 
If the purpose of your paper is to present the Oral History of one or more 
of your research participants, follow the guidelines in Section 8.36 for includ-
ing quotations from research participants. If the paper is published, this Oral 
History then becomes part of the recorded scholarly literature and can thus be 
cited by others using standard formats. 
If you spoke with an Indigenous person directly to learn information (but 
they were not a research participant), use a variation of the personal communi-
cation citation: Provide the person's full name and the nation or specific Indige-
nous group to which they belong, as well as their location or other details about 
them as relevant, followed by the words "personal communication," and the date 
of the communication. Provide an exact date of correspondence if available; if 
correspondence took place over a period of time, provide a more general date 
or a range of dates. (The date refers to when you consulted with the person, not 
to when the information originated.) Ensure that the person agrees to have their 
name included in your paper and confirms the accuracy and appropriateness of 
the information you presento 
We spoke with Anna Grant (Ha ida Nation, lives in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, 
personal communication, April 2019) about traditional understandings of the world by 
First Nations Peoples in Canada. She described .. 
If you are an Indigenous person and are sharing your own experiences or the 
previously unrecorded Traditional Knowledge or Oral Tradition of your people, 
describe yourself in the text (e.g., what nation you belong to, where you live) to 
contextualize the origin of the information you are sharing. Do not use a per-
sonal communication citation or provide a reference list entry because you do 
not need to cite personal information. It is often useful to collaborate with other 
Indigenous people to address any questions that may arise. For more on the 
terms to use when describing Indigenous Peoples, see Section 5.7. 
In-Text Citations 
8.10 Author-Date Citation System 
Use the author-date citation system to cite references in the text in APA Style. In 
this system, each work used in a paper has two parts: an in-text citation and a 
corresponding reference list entry (see Figure 8.2). The in-text citation appears 
within the body of the paper (or in a table, figure, footnote, or appendix) and 

=== PDF PAGE 278 ===
262 
~ WORKS CREDITED IN THE TEXT 
Figure 8.2 Correspondence Between a Reference List Entry and an In-Text Citation 
Reference list entry: 
Alexander, P. A. (2018). Past as prologue: Educational psychology's 
legacy and progeny. Journal of Educational Psychology, 
110(2), 147- 162. https:j/doi.org/1O.1037/edu0000200 
Parenthetical citation: 
(Alexander, 2018) 
Narrative citation: 
Alexander (2018) 
Note. The four elements of a reference list entry inelude the author (in purple), the date (in blue), the title (in 
yellow), and the source (in green). The in-text citations that correspond to this reference inelude the last name 
of the author and year of publication, which match the information in the reference list entry. 
briefly identifies the cited work by its author and date of publication. This 
in-text citation enables readers to locate the corresponding entry in the alpha-
betical reference list at the end of the papero Each reference list entry provides 
the author, date, title, and source of the work cited in the paper and enables 
readers to identify and retrieve the work (see Chapter 9 for how to create and 
order reference list entries). 
In an in-text citation, provide the surname(s) ofthe author(s) or the name(s) 
ofthe group author(s). Do not include suffixes such as "Jr." in the in-text cita-
tion. (For authors with only one name or only a username, see Section 9.8.) 
The list of authors in an in-text citation may be shortened in certain cases (for 
individual authors, see Section 8.17; for group authors, see Section 8.21). To 
create an in-text citation for a work with an unknown or anonymous author, 
see Section 8.14. 
The date in the in-text citation should match the date in the reference list 
entry. Use only the year in the in-text citation, even if the reference list entry 
contains a more specific date (e.g., year, month, and day). For works with no 
date, use "n.d." in the in-text citation (see also Section 9.17); for works that have 
been accepted for publication but have not yet been published, use "in press." 
Do not use phrases like "in progress" for draft manuscripts; instead, use the year 
the draft was written (see Section 10.8). 
Each in-text citation must correspond to only one reference list entry. Avoid 
ambiguity when abbreviating the list of authors (see Sections 8.17 and 8.21), 
when multiple works have the same author(s) and date (see Section 8.19), and 
when multiple first authors share the same surname (see Section 8.20). 
8.11 Parenthetical and Narrative Citations 
In-text citations have two formats: parenthetical and narrative. In parenthetical 
citations, the author name and publication date (or equivalent information; see 
Section 9.12) appear in parentheses. In narrative citations, this information is 
incorporated into the text as part of the sentence. 

=== PDF PAGE 279 ===
In-Text Citations 
'Parenthetical Citation. Both the author and the date, separated by a comma, 
appear in parentheses for a parenthetical citation. A parenthetical citation can 
appear within or at the end of a sentence. When a parenthetical citation is at 
the end of a sentence, put the period or other end punctuation after the'closing 
parenthesis. 
Falsely balanced news coverage can distort the public's perception of expert consensus 
on an issue (Koehler, 2016). 
• If other text appears with the parenthetical citation, use commas around 
the year. 
(se e Koehler, 2016, for more detail) 
• When text and a citation appear together in parentheses, use a semicolon to 
separate the citation from the text; do not use parentheses within parentheses. 
(e.g., falsely balanced news coverage; Koehler, 2016) 
Narrative Citation. The author appears in running text and the date appears in 
parentheses immediately after the author name for a narrative citation. 
Koehler (2016) noted the dangers of falsely balanced news coverage. 
• In rare cases, the author and date might both appear in the narrative. In this 
case, do not use parentheses. 
In 2016, Koehler noted the dangers of falsely balanced news coverage. 
8.12 Citing Multiple Works 
When citing multiple works parenthetically, place the citations in alphabetical 
order, separating them with semicolons. Listing both parenthetical in-text cita-
tions and reference list entries in alphabetical order helps readers locate and 
retrieve works because they are listed in the same order in both places. 
(Adams et al., 2019; Shumway & Shulman, 2015; Westinghouse, 2017) 
• Arrange two or more works by the same authors by year of publication. Place 
citations with no date first, followed by works with dates in chronological 
order; in-press citations appear lasto Give the authors' surnames once; for 
each subsequent work, give only the date. 
(Department of Veterans Affairs, n.d" 2017a, 2017b, 2019) 
Zhou (n.d., 2000, 2016, in press) 
• In the case of multiple works in which sorne author names have been abbre-
viated to "et al." (see Section 8.17), place the citations in chronological order 
(regardless of the order in which they appear in the reference list). 
(Carraway et al., 2013, 2014, 2019) 
• To highlight the work(s) most directly relevant to your point in a given sen-
tence, place those citations first within parentheses in alphabetical order and 
then insert a semi colon and a phrase, such as "see also," before the first of the 
remaining citations, which should also be in alphabetical order. This strategy 
allows authors to emphasize, for example, the most recent or most important 
research on a topic, which would not be reflected by alphabetical order alone. 
(Sampson & Hughes, 2020; see also Augustine, 2017; Melara et al., 2018; Pérez, 2014) 
~ 263 

=== PDF PAGE 280 ===
264 ~ W ORKS CREDITED IN THE TEXT 
• Readers may find a long string of citations difficult to parse, especially if they 
are using assistive technology such as a screen reader; therefore, include only 
those citations needed to support your immediate point (for more on appro-
priate level of citation, see Section 8.1). 
. 
• If multiple sources are cited within the narrative of a sentence, they c·ari 
appear in any order. 
Suliman (2018), Gutiérrez (2012, 2017), and Medina and Reyes (2019) examined ... 
8.13 Citing Specific Parts of a Source 
To cite a specific part of a source, pravide an author-date citation for the work 
plus information about the specific parto There are many possible parts to cite, 
including 
• pages, paragraphs, sections, tables, figures, supplemental materials, or foot-
notes fram an article, book, report, webpage, or other work; 
• chapters, forewords, or other sections of authored books; 
• time stamps of videos or audiobooks; and 
• slide numbers in PowerPoint presentations. 
For religious and classical works with canonically numbered parts common 
across editions (e.g., books, chapters, verses, lines, cantos), cite the part instead 
of a page number (see Section 9.42). 
(Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2019, p. 10) 
(Shimamura, 2017, Chapter 3) 
(Armstrong, 2015, pp. 3-17) 
(Shadid, 2020, paras. 2-3) 
(KovaCic & Horvat, 2019, Table 1) 
(Thompson, 2020, Slide 7) 
(Beck Institute for Cognitive Behavior Therapy, 2012, 1 :30:40) 
(KingJamesBible, 1769/2017, 1 Cor.13:1) 
(Aristotle, ca. 350 B.C.EJ1994, Part IV) 
(Shakespeare, 1623/1995, 1.3.36-37) 
In the reference list, provide an entry for the entire work (not only the part that 
you used). 
It is possible to cite a specific part of a source whether you are paraphrasing 
(see Sections 8.23-8.24) or directly quoting (see Sections 8.25-8.27). For further 
guidance on quoting works without page numbers (e.g., webpages, websites, 
audiovisual works) and religious and classical works with canonically num-
bered sections, see Section 8.28. 
8.14 Unknown or Anonymous Author 
When the author of a work is not named, the author may be unknown (i.e., no 
author is listed on the work, as with a religious work) or identified specifically 
as ''Anonymous.'' For works with an unknown author (see Section 9.12), include 
the title and year of publication in the in-text citation (note that the title moves 
to the author position in the reference list entry as well). If the title of the work 
is italicized in the reference, also italicize the title in the in-text citation. If the 

=== PDF PAGE 281 ===
In-Text Citations 
~ 265 
title of the work isnot italicized in the reference, use double quotation marks 
around the title in the in-text citation. Capitalize these titles in the text using 
title case (see Section 6.17), even though sentence case is used in the reference 
list entry. If the title is long, shbrtenit for the in-text citation. 
. 
Book with no author: (Interpersonal Ski 115, 2019) 
Magazine arfic/e with no author: ("Understanding Sensory Memory," 2018) 
When the author of a work is overtly designated as "Anonymous" (see Section 
9.12), ''Anonymous'' takes the place ofthe author name in the in-text citation. 
(Anonymous, 2017) 
8.15 Translated, Reprinted, Republished, and Reissued Dates 
References to translated, reprinted, republished, or reissued works (see Sec-
tions 9.39-9.41) contain two dates in the in-text citation: the year of publica-
tion of the original work and the year of publication of the translation, reprint, 
republication, or reissue. Separate the years with a slash, with the earlier year 
first (see Chapter 10, Example 29). 
Freud (1900/1953) 
(Piaget, 1966/2000) 
8.16 Omitting the Year in Repeated Narrative Citations 
In general, include the author and date in every in-text citation. If you need to 
repeat a citation (see Section 8.1), repeat the entire citation; do not, for example, 
include only a page number (the abbreviation "ibid." is not used in APA Style). 
The year can be omitted from a citation only when multiple narrative citations 
to a work appear within a single paragraph (se e Figure 8.3 for an example). 
Figure 8.3 Example of Repeated Narrative Citations With the Year Omitted 
I author name and year I 
Koehler (2016) experimentally examined how journalistic coverage influences 
public perception of the level of agreement among experts. Koehler provided 
participants with quotations from real reviews for movies that critics either loved or 
loathed. He found that participants better appreciated the level of expert consensus 
for highly rated movies when only positive reviews were provided rather than when 
both positive and negative reviews were provided, even when the proportion of 
positive to negative reviews was indicated. These findings, in combination with 
similar research, demonstrate that providing evidence for both sides when most 
experts agree may lead to a false sense of balance (Koehler, 2016; Reginald, 2015). 
.-------------r~ 
I 
year always included in I 
parenthetical citations 
/' 
year 
I 
omitted 

=== PDF PAGE 282 ===
266 ~ WORKS CREDITED IN THE TEXT 
Once you have provided a narrative citation to a work in a paragraph, do not 
repeat the year in subsequent narrative citations in that same paragraph. Follow 
this guideline with each paragraph (i.e., indude the year in the first narrative 
citation in a new paragraph).Indude the year in every parenthetical citation. 
However, if you cite multiple works by the same author or authors, regard ~ . 
less of the publication years, indude the date in every in-text citation to pre-
vent ambiguity. For example, if you cite Mohammed and Mahfouz (2017) and 
Mohammed and Mahfouz (2019), indude the year with every citation, even 
when one of the references is cited multiple times in a single paragraph. 
8.17 Number of Authors to Inelude in In-Text Citations 
The format of the author element of the in-text citation changes depending on 
the number of authors and is abbreviated in sorne cases. See Table 8.1 for exam-
pIes of the basic in-text citation styles. 
• For a work with one or two authors, indude the author name(s) in every 
citation. 
• For a work with three or more authors, indude the name of only the first 
author plus "et al." in every citation, induding the first citation, unless doing 
so would create ambiguity (see Section 8.18). 
In parenthetical citations, use an ampersand (&) between names for a work with 
two authors or before the last author when all names must be induded to avoid 
ambiguity (see Section 8.18). In narrative citations, spell out the word "and." 
(J6reskog & S6rbom, 2007) 
Eifert and Yildiz (2018) 
In tables and figures, use an ampersand between names in both parenthetical -
and narrative citations. 
The same guidelines apply when any of the authors are groups. For example, 
if a work is authored by three groups, the in-text citation would indude the 
name ofthe first group plus "et al." 
(American Educational Research Association et al., 2014) 
Table 8.1 Basic In-Text Citation Styles 
Author type 
Parenthetical citation 
Narrative citation 
One author 
(Luna, 2020) 
Luna (2020) 
Two authors 
(Salas & D'Agostino, 2020) 
Salas and D'Agostino (2020) 
Three or more authors 
(Martin et al., 2020) 
Martin et al. (2020) 
Group author with abbreviation 
First citation' 
(National Institute of Mental Health 
Nationallnstitute of Mental Health 
[NIMHl, 2020) 
(NIMH,2020) 
Subsequent citations 
(NIMH,2020) 
NIMH (2020) 
Group author without abbreviation 
(Stanford University, 2020) 
Stanford University (2020) 
' Define the abbreviation for a group author only once in the text, choosing either the parenthetical or the narrative formal. 
Thereafter, use the abbreviation for all mentions of the group in the text (see Section 8.21). 
I 

