
=== PDF PAGE 130 ===
4 
WRITING STYLE ANO 
GRAMMAR 
The main objective of scholarly writing is clear communication, which can be 
achieved by presenting ideas in an orderly and concise manner. Establishing a 
tone that conveys the essential points of your work in an interesting way will 
engage readers and communicate your ideas effectively. Precise, clear word 
choice and sentence structure also contribute to the creation of a substantive, 
impactful work. 
In this chapter, we provide guidance on achieving the four qualities of effec-
tive scholarly writing: continuity, flow, conciseness, and clarity. This is followed 
by general rules for grammar and usage and suggested strategies for improving 
your writing. 
Effective Scholarly Writing 
Being able to communicate ideas clearly and succinctly is a recipe for success for 
all writers, be they students submitting assignments to their instructor or profes-
sionals submitting manuscripts to a journal. Effective scholarly writing balances 
continuity and flow with conciseness and clarity. By implementing the tech-
niques and principies described in Sections 4.1 to 4.11, writers will improve these 
aspects of their communication and become more effective communicators. 
Continuity and Flow 
4.1 Importance of Continuity and Flow 
Effective writing is characterized by continuity, the logical consistency of expres-
sion throughout a written work, and by flow, the smooth cadence ofwords and 
sentences. Inconsistencies, contradictions, omissions, and irrelevancies in your 
111 


=== PDF PAGE 131 ===
112 ~ WRITING STYLE AND GRAMMAR 
writing style and presentation of ideas can make your arguments seem less 
credible. A work that lacks continuity and flow may seem disorganized or con-
fusing, and details may seem incomplete or inconsistent. Readers will better 
understand your ideas if you aim for continuity in words, concepts, and the-
matic development fram the opening statement to the conclusion. Explain rela-
tionships between ideas clearly, and present ideas in a logical order to imprave 
the readability of your papero 
4.2 Transitions 
To improve continuity and flow in your writing, check transitions between sen-
tences, paragraphs, and ideas to ensure that the text is smooth and clear rather 
than abrupt or disjointed. When editing your writing, use additional transi-
tional devices to make it less choppy. Text that sounds choppy or disjointed may 
indicate that you have abandoned an argument or theme prematurely-instead 
consider amplifying its discussion. 
Punctuation marks contribute to continuity and flow by signaling transitions 
and demonstrating relationships between ideas. They also reflect the pauses, 
inflections, subordination, and pacing normally heard in speech. Use the full 
range of punctuation. Neither overuse nor underuse one type of punctuation, 
such as commas or dashes: Overuse may annoy readers, whereas underuse may 
cause confusion. Instead, use punctuation to support meaning. 
Likewise, transitional words and phrases help maintain the flow of ideas, 
especially when the material is complex or abstracto For example, using a pro-
noun that refers to a noun in the preceding sentence not only serves as a transi-
tion but also avoids repetition. Be sure the referent is obvious. Other transitional 
words and phrases include the following: 
• time links (e.g., "then," "next," "after," "while," "since") 
• cause-effect links (e.g., "therefore," "consequentIy," "as a result") 
• addition links (e.g., "in addition," "moreover," "furthermore," "similarly") 
• contrast links (e.g., "but," "conversely," "nevertheless:' "however," "although") 
Use adverbs judiciously as introductory or transitional words (e.g., adverbs such 
as "certainly," "consequentIy," "conversely," "fortunatelY;' "importantly," "interest-
ingly," "more importantly," "regrettably," and "similarly"). Writers often overuse 
adverbs, so ask yourself whether the introduction or transition is needed. For 
example, both "importantly" and "interestingly" can often be recast to enhance 
the message of a sentence or simply omitted without a loss of meaning. 
4.3 Noun Strings 
Noun strings, meaning several nouns placed one after another to modify a final 
noun, can confuse readers and force them to question how the words relate 
to one another. Although skillful hyphenation can clarify the relationships 
between words, often the best option is to untangle the string. One appraach to 
untangling is to move the final noun earlier in the string and show relationships 
between the other nouns by using verbs and prepositions. For example, "cultur-
ally sensitive qualitative interview techniques" can be rearranged to "culturally 
sensitive techniques for qualitative interviews." Consider the following, nearly 
uninterpretable noun strings and how each could be better structured: 


=== PDF PAGE 132 ===
Noun string 
skinfold test body fat percentage 
examination 
preliminary online collegiate 
instructional methods survey results 
Conciseness and Clarity 
Conciseness and Clarity 
C\v 
113 
Better sentence structure 
• 
a caliper examination to determine body fat 
percéntage 
• 
a skinfold test to determine body fat percentage 
• 
determination of body fat percentage using 
calipers to measure skinfold thickness 
• 
preliminary results of an online survey of collegiate 
instructional methods 
• 
preliminary results of an online survey to assess 
college students' preferred instructional methods 
I 
I 
4.4 Importance of Conciseness and Clarity 
Say only what needs to be said in your writing: The author who is more concise-
that is, more frugal with words-writes a more readable papero Authors seeking 
publication and students completing assignments increase their chances of suc-
cess when they write concisely. Likewise, writing that is clear and precise is 
more accurate and transparento In combination, conciseness and clarity in 
your writing ensure that readers understand your meaning. 
Sorne writers may fear that writing concisely will make their papers too short. 
However, adding extraneous material or "fluff" to make your paper longer will 
dilute its focus and meaning and will not improve your chances of publication 
or of getting a favorable grade. If your paper is too short when written concisely, 
your ideas and themes may need to be further developed to add substance. 
Where possible, tighten language to eliminate wordiness, redundancy (see 
Section 4.5), evasiveness, overuse of the passive voice, circumlocution, and 
clumsy prose. Shorten or eliminate overly detailed descriptions of equipment 
or apparatus, participants, or procedures (beyond those called for in journal 
article reporting standards; see Chapter 3); elaborations of the obvious; and 
irrelevant observations or asides. Information that would cause the paper to be 
too long and is not essential to understanding the research-but would none-
theless be helpful to a subset of readers-may be placed, when appropriate, in 
supplemental materials (see Section 2.15). 
Short words and short sentences are easier to comprehend than long ones 
(see Section 4.6). A long technical term, however, may be more precise thansev-
eral short words, and technical terms are inseparable from scientific reporting. 
However, a paper with too much jargon or terminology familiar to only a few 
specialists does not sufficiently contribute to the literature because its meaning 
is obfuscated (see Section 4.9). Rather, the technical terms in a paper should be 
either readily understood by readers across disciplines or defined for readers 
who may be unfamiliar with them. 
Concise writing must also be clear. Be deliberate in your word choices, mak-
ing certain that every word means exactly what you intend. For example, in 
informal style, "feel" broadly substitutes for "think" or "believe," but in academic 
style, such latitude in word choice is not acceptable. Likewise, using a word 
with multiple meanings can cause confusion. For example, sorne writers use the 
word "significant" to mean "important;' whereas others use "significant" only in 
the context of statistical significance testing; ensure that your intended meaning 


=== PDF PAGE 133 ===
114 ~ WRITING STYLE AND GRAMMAR 
is dear. Choose words and phrases carefully, and specifY the intended meaning 
if there is potential for ambiguity. 
If you use a word or phrase multiple times, do so consistently (e.g., do not 
switch between "participants il) the music condition" and "participants who 
heard the music while completing the task"- choose one presentation and use 
it consistently). Sorne writers deliberately use synonyms or near-synonyms 
to avoid repeating a word or phrase. The intention is commendable, but in 
practice the use of synonyms can lead to imprecision: By using synonyms, 
you may unintentionally suggest a subtle difference. Therefore, use synonyms 
with careo 
Word choice is especially important when talking about people who are 
members of specific groups, such as in a Method section. Carefully consider the 
descriptors you use, making sure they are accurate, consistent with current pre-
ferred terminology, and in line with how the individuals you are writing about . 
describe themselves. In no case should you use biased, pejorative, or demeaning 
language (see Chapter 5 for guidelines on using bias-free language). 
Strive for a professional tone and professionallanguage (see Sections 4.7-4.9). 
Avoid heavy alliteration, rhyming, poetic expressions, and clichés. Use meta-
phors sparingly; although they can help simplifY complicated ideas, metaphors 
can also be distracting or undear. Avoid mixed metaphors (e.g., "a theory rep-
resenting one branch of a growing body of evidence") and words with surplus 
or unintended meanings (e.g., "outstanding" for "remaining"), which may dis-
tract or mislead readers. Use figurative expressions with restraint and colorful 
expressions with care; because these expressions can be open to interpretation 
and even cultural differences, they generally do not add to understanding for 
all possible readers. Instead, make direct, logical comparisons (see Section 4.10) 
and dearly attribute actions (se e Section 4.11). 
4.5 Wordiness and Redundancy 
Wordiness can impede readers' understanding by forcing them to sort through 
unnecessary words to decipher your ideas. Unconstrained wordiness lapses 
into embellishment and flowery writing, which are inappropriate in academic 
style. Consider the following examples of wordy and concise language: 
Wordy 
Concise 
I 
at the present time 
now 
for the purpose of 
for, to 
there were several students who completed 
several students completed 
Whereas wordiness refers to using more words than are necessary, redundancy 
means using multiple words with the same meaning. Writers often use redun-
dant language to be emphatic. Instead, use sentence structure to convey empha-
sis, for example, by placing the words to be emphasized at the beginning or end 
of a sentence. When possible and appropriate for the context, use the active 
voice (see Section 4.13) to reduce wordiness and redundancy. In the following 
examples, the highlighted words are redundant and should be omitted: 


=== PDF PAGE 134 ===
they were both alike 
a sum total 
four different groups saw 
were exactly the same as 
absolutely essential 
has been previously found 
small in size 
one and the same 
in close proximity to 
completely unanimous 
positioned very close 
period of time 
summarize briefly 
the reason is because 
4.6 Sentence and Paragraph Length 
Conciseness and Clarity 
~ 115 
There is no minimum or maximum sentence length in APA Style. Overuse of 
short, simple sentences produces choppy prose, however, and overuse of long, 
involved sentences results in difficult, sometimes incomprehensible, language. 
Varied sentence length helps readers maintain interest and comprehension. 
When involved concepts require long sentences, the components should pro-
ceed logically. Avoid including multiple ideas in a single sentence; instead, 
break the sentence into shorter ones. Direct, declarative sentences with simple, 
common words are usually best. 
Similar cautions apply to paragraph length. Single-sentence paragraphs are 
abrupt and should be used infrequently. Paragraphs that are too long (i.e., lon-
ger than one double-spaced manuscript page) risk losing readers' attention. A 
new paragraph signals a shift to a new idea and provides a pause for readers-a 
chance to assimilate one step in the conceptual development before beginning 
another. Look for a logical place (or places) to break up a long paragraph or 
reorganize the material. 
4.7 Tone 
Although scientific writing differs in form and content from creative or liter-
ary writing, it need not lack style or be dull. When writing a scholarly paper, 
keep in mind that scientific prose and creative or literary writing serve differ-
ent purposes. Devices that are often used in creative writing- for example, 
setting up ambiguity; inserting the unexpected; omitting the expected; and 
suddenly shifting the topic, tense, or person- do not support the objective 
of clear communication in scientific writing. Similarly, devices or embellish-
ments that attract attention to words and sounds instead of to ideas are inap-
propriate in scientific writing. 
Thus, when describing your research, present the ideas and findings in a 
direct, straightforward manner, while also aiming for an interesting and com-
pelling style- for example, by fully elaborating on an idea or concept (see Sec-
tion 4.2), making word choices that reflect your involvement with the problem 
(see Section 4.4), and varying sentence and paragraph lengths (see Section 4.6). 
Use language that conveys professionalism and formality (see Section 4.8). For 
example, scientific writing often contrasts the positions of different research-
ers, and these differences should be presented in a professional, noncombative 
manner: Stating "Gerard (2019) did not address" is acceptable, whereas "Gerard 
(2019) completely overlooked" is noto 
One way to achieve the right tone is to imagine a specific reader you intend 
to reach and write in a way that will inform and persuade that individual. For 


=== PDF PAGE 135 ===
116 ~ WRITING STYLE AND GRAMMAR 
example, your reader might be a researcher in a related field who is trying to 
keep abreast of the literature but is not familiar with the jargon or insider per-
spectives of your field. What would facilitate this reader's understanding of and 
appreciation for the importance.of your work? 
4.8 Contractions and Colloquialisms 
Avoid using contractions and colloquialisms, which detract from a profes-
sional tone in scholarly writing. Contractions-shortened forms of one or two 
words in which an apostrophe is used in place of missing letters-generally 
do not appear in scholarly writing because they convey an informal tone. To 
avoid contractions and improve your writing, evaluate words with apostrophes 
carefully. Except for cases noted, rewrite a word like "can't" into "cannot." Use 
apostrophes to indicate possession (e.g., "the student's work"), but remember 
that possessive pronouns do not include apostrophes (e.g., write "its purpose 
was" not "it's purpose was"). However, contractions can be appropriately used 
in sorne circumstances, such as in reproducing a direct quotation that con-
tains a contraction (e.g., when quoting a research participant, do not change 
a participant's use of "let's go" to "let us go"), referring to a contraction as a 
linguistic example (e.g., when discussing confusion of "who's" with "whose"), 
or referring to an idiom or common saying that contains a contraction (e.g., 
"yo u can"t take it with you"). 
Likewise, avoid colloquialisms, which are informal expressions used in every-
day speech and writing (e.g., "to write up" instead of"to report," "gonna" instead 
of"going to"). These expressions often diffuse meaning, as in the case of approxi-
mations of quantity; "quite a large part," "practically all;' and "very few" are inter-
preted differently by different readers or in different contexts. Approximations 
weaken statements, especially those describing empirical observations. Instead, 
use precise, scholarly language. 
4.9 Jargon 
Jargon is specialized terminology that is unfamiliar to those outside a specific 
group. Overuse of jargon, even in papers in which that vocabulary is relevant, 
hinders comprehension. Jargon also may be euphemistic if substituted for a 
familiar term (e.g., "period of economic adjustment" instead of "recession"), 
and you should avoid usingjargon in this way. Bureaucratic jargon has had the 
greatest publicity, but academic or scientific jargon may also grate on readers, 
encumber communication, and waste space. Ensure that the language you use 
allows readers to understand your writing even if they are not experts in your 
field, and define on first use any specialized terms that are key to your topic. 
4.10 Logical Comparisons 
Ensure that the comparisons you make are expressed clearly and logically. 
Ambiguous or illogical comparisons result from the omission of key words or 
from nonparallel structure (see Section 4.24). Consider, for example, "Twelve-
year-olds were more likely to play with age peers than 6-year-olds." Does this 
sentence mean that 12-year-olds were more likely than 6-year-olds to play with 
age peers? Or does it mean that 12-year-olds were more likely to play with age 
peers and less likely to play with 6-year-olds? Ambiguity occurs when parallel-


=== PDF PAGE 136 ===
Verbs 
~ 117 
.ism is overlooked for the sake of brevity, as in "The responses of transgender 
participants were more positive than cisgender participants." One correct way 
to write this sentence would be "The responses of transgender participants 
were more positive than those of cisgender participants." Thoughtful atten-
tion to good sentence structure and word choice reduces the chance of this 
kind of ambiguity. 
4.11 Anthropomorphism 
Do not attribute human characteristics to animals or to inanimate sources-
doing so is called anthropomorphism. 
Correct 
Incorrect 
Rationale 
1 
Pairs of rats (cage mates) 
Rat couples (cage mates) 
"Rat couples" implies a misleading 
were allowed to forage 
were allowed to forage 
parallel between human romantic 
together. 
together. 
couples and pairs of rats. 
The theory addresses 
The theory concludes 
A theory might address, indicate, 
or present, but it is the researchers 
(not the theory itself) who 
conclude. 
Pair active verbs with human actors (e.g., write "we extrapolated the rate of 
change" rather than "the study extrapolated the rate of change"). However, 
many acceptabIe constructions in widespread use do not constitute anthro-
pomorphism because they do not impede understanding or misIead readers. 
When describing the content of different sections of a paper, you may write, 
for exampIe, "this section addresses" or "the chapter focuses on" as well as "in 
this section we address" or "in this chapter, we focus on" (see Section 6.3 for 
comma use with introductory phrases). Similarly, when describing the results 
of a study, you may write "the results suggest," "the data provide," "the research 
contributes," "the study found," and so forth. 
Determining what constitutes anthropomorphism can be challenging, and 
even distinguished scholars may disagree. In ambiguous cases, we recommend 
that authors keep the principIe of clear communication at the forefront of their 
word choice and sentence structure. 
Grammar and Usage 
Incorrect grammar and careIess construction of sentences distract readers, 
introduce ambiguity, and impede clear communication. The exampIes in this 
section represent common grammar and usage errors that often appear in 
papers submitted to journal editors and academic instructors. 
Verbs 
4.12 Verb Tense 
Verbs are vigorous, direct communicators. The past tense is appropriate when 
expressing an action or a condition that occurred at a specific, definite time in 


=== PDF PAGE 137 ===
118 
~ WRITING STYLE AND GRAMMAR 
the past, such as when discussing another researcher's work. The present per-
fect tense is appropriate to express a past action or condition that did not occur 
at a specific, definite time or to describe an action beginning in the past and 
continuing to the presento 
Use verb tenses consistently, and stay within the chosen tense to ensure 
smooth expression. Sudden, unnecessary shifts in verb tense in the same para-
graph or in adjacent paragraphs may confuse readers. Use the verb tenses 
shown in Table 4.1 to report information in various parts of the papero 
4.13 Active and Passive Voice 
Voice describes the relationship between a verb and the subject and object asso-
ciated with it. In the active voice, the subject of a sentence is presented first, fol-
lowed by the verb and then the object of the verb (e.g., "students completed 
surveys"). In the passive voice, the object of the verb is presented first, followed by 
the verb (usually a form of "to be" + past participle + the word "by") and then the 
subject last (e.g., "surveys were completed by students"); sometimes, the subject 
is omitted altogether, resulting in confusion about who is performing the action. 
Choose voice carefully. Both the active and passive voices are permitted in 
APA Style, but many writers overuse the passive voice. Use the active voice as 
much as possible to create direct, clear, and concise sentences. For example, use 
the active voice to describe the actions of participants and others involved in 
your study (see Section 5.6), as in "the patients took the medication orally," not 
"the medication was taken orally by the patients." 
The passive voice is acceptable in expository writing when focusing on 
the object or recipient of the action rather than on the actor. For example, a 
description of the experimental setup in the Method section might read, "the 
speakers were attached to either side of the chair," which appropriately empha-
sizes the placement of the speakers, not who placed them. Similarly, "the tests 
were gathered promptly" emphasizes the importance of the tests and their 
timely collection. When it is important to know who performed the action, use 
the active voice. 
Table 4.1 Recommended Verb Tenses in APA Style Papers 
Paper section 
Recommended tense 
Example 
Literature review (or 
Past 
Quinn (2020) presented 
whenever discussing other 
Present perfect 
Since then, many investigators have 
researchers' work) 
used 
Method 
Past 
Participants completed a survey 
Description of procedure 
Present perfect 
Others have used similar approaches 
Reporting of results 
Past 
Results were nonsignificant 
Scores increased 
Hypotheses were supported 
Discussion of implications 
Present 
The results indicate 
of results 
Presentation of conclusions, 
Present 
We conclude 
limitations, future directions, 
Limitations of the study are 
and so forth 


=== PDF PAGE 138 ===
Verbs 
C\Y 
119 
·4.14 Mood 
Mood refers to the forin of a verb authors use to express their attitude toward 
what they are saying (e.g., whether they believe what they are saying or just 
wish it were true). Use the indicative mood to make factual statements (e.g., 
"we addressed," "the findings demonstrate"). Use the subjunctive mood only to 
describe conditions that are contrary to fact or improbable; do not use the sub-
junctive to describe simple conditions or contingencies. 
Correet 
If the campus were larger, we 
would have had access to 
more participants. 
Ineorreet 
If the campus was larger, we 
would have had access to more 
participants. 
Rationale 
The campus is not in fact 
larger; the writer is only 
wishing that this were so. 
Use the word "would" with careo "Would" can be used in the indicative mood to 
mean "habitually," as in "The child would walk about the classroom," or in the 
conditional mood to express a condition of action, as in "We would sign the 
letter if we could." Do not use "would" to hedge; for example, change "it would 
appear that" to "it appears that." 
4.15 Subject and Verb Agreement 
A verb must agree in number (i.e., singular or plural; see Section 6.11) with its 
subject, regardless of intervening phrases such as "together with," "including," 
"plus," and "as well as." 
Corred: The pereentage of correct responses, as well as the speed of the responses, 
increases with praetiee. 
Incorrect: The pereentage of eorrect responses, as we ll as the speed of the responses, 
increase with praetiee. 
Collective Nouns. Collective nouns (e.g., "series;' "set;' "faculty," "pair," "social 
media") can refer to several individuals or to a single unit. If the action of the 
verb applies to the group as a whole, treat the noun as singular and use a singu-
lar verbo If the action of the verb applies to members of the group as individuals, 
treat the noun as plural and use a plural verbo The context (i.e., your emphasis) 
determines whether the action applies to the group or to individuals. 
Singular in context: The number of people in the state is growing. 
A pair of animals was in ea eh eage. 
Plural in context: A number of people are watehing. 
A pair of animals were then yoked. 
Use of"None." The subject pronoun "none" can be singular or plural. When the 
noun that follows it is singular, use a singular verb; when the noun is plural, use 
a plural verbo 
Singular in context: None of the information was correcto 
Plural in context: None of the ehildren were finished in the time allotted. 
Compound Subjects Joined by "Or" or "Nor." When a compound subject is 
composed of a singular and a plural noun joined by "or" or "nor," the verb agrees 
with the no un that is closer to the verbo 


=== PDF PAGE 139 ===
120 ~ WRITING STYLE AND GRAMM A R 
Correct: Neither the participants nor the confederate was in the room. 
Neither the confederate nor the participants were in the room. 
Incorrect: Neither the participants nor the confederate were in the room. 
Pronouns 
4.16 First- Versus Third-Person Pronouns 
Pronouns replace nouns, and each pronoun should refer clearly to its anteced-
ent. To avoid ambiguity in attribution, use the first person rather than the third 
person when describing the work you did as part of your research and when 
expressing your own views. If you are writing a paper by yourself, use the pro-
noun ''1''; do not use the pronoun "we" to refer to yourself if you do not have 
coauthors (see also Section 4.17). Ifyou are writing a paper with coauthors, use 
the pronoun "we." Do not refer to yourself or your coauthors in the third person 
as "the author(s)" or "the researcher(s)." 
However, use the third person to refer to the specific contribution of a par-
ticular coauthor within a paper with multiple authors. In the following example, 
Sonia J. Cousteau is one of the authors of the paper: 
We assessed children's language abilities. Sonia J. Cousteau, who is a speech-Ianguage 
pathologist, trained all testers. 
Keep in mind that if you refer to coauthors by name in the text of your man-
uscript, you may need to mark out their names each time they appear if your 
paper is to undergo masked review (see Section 12.7). 
4.17 Editorial "We" 
Do not use "we" to refer to people in general, as in "We live on the same planet, 
but we rarely truly understand each other"; this use is called the editorial "we." 
It is especially important to avoid the editorial "we" in multiauthored papers 
because readers may wonder whether you are referring to all people, members 
of your professional group(s), or yourself and your coauthors. Substitute a more 
specific noun or clarif}' your usage. 
Correct: Psychological researchers typically study decision making in a laboratory setting. 
Incorrect: We typically study decision making in a laboratory setting. 
Sorne alternatives to "we" are "people," "humans," "researchers," "psychologists," 
"nurses," and so on. However, "we" is an appropriate and useful referent once a 
specific subject has been established. 
Correct: As nurses, we tend to rely on ... 
Incorrect: We tend to rely on . .. 
4.18 Singular "They" 
Writers should always use the singular "they" to refer to a person who uses "they" 
as their pronoun (see Section 5.5 for more on gender and pronoun usage). Also 
use "they" as a generic third-person singular pronoun to refer to a person whose 
gender is unknown or irrelevant to the context of the usage. Although usage of 
the singular "they" was once discouraged in academic writing, many advocacy 
groups and publishers have accepted and endorsed it, includingMerriam-Websters 


=== PDF PAGE 140 ===
Pronouns 
C\v 
121 
. Dictionary (Merriam-Webster, n.d.-b). The use ofthe singular "they" is inclusive 
of all people, helps writers avoid making assumptions about gender, and is part 
of APA Style. 
When using the singular "they," use the forms "they," "them;' "their;' "theirs," 
and "themselves." The variant "themself" is also acceptable because the referent 
is clearly singular, although "themselves" is currently the more common usage. 
The following are examples of correct usage of the singular "they." 
Each participant turned in their questionnaire. 
Jamie shared their experiences as a genderqueer persono 
A child should learn to play by themselves [or themseln as well as with friends. 
Rowan, a transgender person, helped themselves [or themseln to the free coffee. 
Do not use "he" or "she" alone as a generic third-person pronoun. Use "he or 
she" and "she or he" sparingly, and ensure that these pronouns match the pro-
nouns of the people being described; if you do not know the pronouns used by 
the people being described, use "they" instead or rewrite the sentence. Do not 
use the combination forms "(s)he" and "s/he" or alternate "he" and "she" (unless 
you know that a person uses these forms); these choices may have uninten-
tional implications. For further discussion of gender and pronoun usage, see 
Section 5.5. 
Keep in mind that there are typically many possible ways to write a sentence. 
If the singular "they" as a generic third-person pronoun seems awkward or dis-
tracting, try one of the following strategies to rewrite the sentence. 
Strategy 
Gender neutral 
Gender biased 
Rephrasing 
When an individual attends 
When an individual attends 
psychotherapy, that person can improve 
psychotherapy, she can improve 
emotional regulation. 
emotional regulation. 
Therapy can help an individual improve 
emotional regulation. 
Using plural nouns or 
Therapists who are too much like their 
A therapist who is too much like 
plural pronouns 
clients can lose their objectivity. 
his client can lose his objectivity. 
Replacing the pronoun 
A researcher must apply for the grant by 
A researcher must apply for his 
with an article 
September 1. 
grant by September 1. 
Dropping the pronoun 
The researcher must avoid letting biases 
The researcher must avoid letting 
and expectations influence the interpreta-
her own biases and expectations 
tion of the results. 
influence the interpretation of 
the results. 
4.19 Pronouns for People and Animals ("Who" vs. "That") 
Relative pronouns introduce subordinate clauses linked to nouns. Use the rela-
tive pronoun "who" for human beings; use the relative pronoun "that" or "which" 
for nonhuman animals (e.g., rats, chimpanzees) and for inanimate objects. 
Correct: The students who completed the task 
Correct: The instructions that were included 
Incorrect: The students that completed the task 
Use neuter pronouns to refer to animal s (e.g., "the dog ... it"). However, it is 
acceptable to use gendered pronouns if the animal has been named and its sex 
is known, as in the following example: 
I 


=== PDF PAGE 141 ===
122 
~ WRITING STYLE AND GRAMMAR 
The chimps were tested daily. Sheba was tested unrestrained in an open testing area, 
which was her usual context for training and testing. 
4.20 Pronouns as Subjects and Objects ("Who" vs. "Whom") 
Relative pronouns can be subjects or objects ofverbs or prepositions. Use "who" 
as the subject of a verb and "whom" as the object of a verb or a preposition. You 
can determine whether a pronoun is the subject or object of a verb by turning 
the subordinate clause around and substituting a personal pronoun. If you can 
substitute "he," "she;' or "they," then "who" is correcto In the following examples, 
"who" and its replacement personal pronoun are highlighted to show the substi-
tutions. The sentence with the substitution is a way to verify whether the origi-
nal sentence is correcto 
Use of "who" 
Original sentence 
Substitution sentence 
I 
Correct 
The participants who passed the 
They passed the exam and were 
exam were given course credit. 
given course credit. 
Incorrect 
Eligible participants were mothers, 
Eligible participants were mothers; 
each of who had a child under the 
each of they had a child under the 
age of 21 with cancer. 
age of 21 with cancer. 
Likewise, if you can substitute "him," "her," or "them," then "whom" is correcto 
Use of "whom" 
Original sentence 
Substitution sentence 
I 
Correct 
Eligible participants were mothers, 
Eligible participants were mothers; 
each of whom had a child under 
each of them had a child under the 
the age of 21 with cancer. 
age of 21 with cancer. 
Incorrect 
The participants whom passed the 
Them passed the exam and were 
exam were given course credit. 
given course credit. 
4.21 Pronouns in Restrictive and Nonrestrictive Clauses 
("That" vs. "Which") 
Relative pronouns (e.g., "who," "whom," "that," "which") introduce an element 
that is subordinate to the main clause of the sentence, and that subordinate 
clause may be either restrictive or nonrestrictive. 
Restrictive clauses- also called "that" clauses- are essential to the meaning of 
the sentence. Restrictive clauses are not set off with commas. 
Therapist self-disclosure that conflicts with the patient's story might hinder the thera-
peutic process. 
In the example, only self-disclosure that conflicts with the patient's story, not all 
self-disclosure, might hinder the therapeutic process. 
Nonrestrictive clauses- also called "which" clauses-add further information to 
the sentence but are not essential to its meaning. Nonrestrictive clauses are set 
off with commas. 
AII interviews were conducted at participants' offices, which provided suitable privacy 
to secure participants' anonymity. 


=== PDF PAGE 142 ===
Sentence Construction 
~ 123 
, In the example, aH interviews were conducted at the offices, and aH offices pro-
vided suitable privacy. 
Although sorne writers use "which" for both restrictive and nonrestrictive 
clauses, APA Style reserves "which" for nonrestrictive clauses and "that" for 
restrictive clauses. Consistent use of "that" for restrictive clauses and "which" 
for nonrestrictive clauses will help make your writing clear and precise. 
Sentence Construction 
4.22 Subordinate Conjunctions 
Subordinate conjunctions (e.g., "since;' "while," "although," "because," "whereas"), 
like relative pronouns (see Sections 4.19-4.21), introduce subordinate clauses. 
Select these conjunctions with care; interchanging conjunctions with more 
than one meaning may reduce the precision of your writing. Although sorne 
writers use "while" and "since" when they do not refer strictly to time, restrict-
ing your use of "while" and "sine e" to their temporal meanings can be helpful 
to readers. 
"While" Versus ''Although,'' "Despite," ''And,'' or "But." U se "while" to link events 
occurring simultaneously. 
Individual goal striving in late adulthood may enrich life while reducing stagnation and 
boredom. 
Otherwise, use "although," "despite," "and," or "but" in place of "while." 
Precise: Although goal progress predicted well-being for all genders, the associations 
tended to be stronger for women . 
Goal progress predicted well-being for all genders, but the associations tended to be 
stronger for women. 
Imprecise: While goal progress predicted well-being for all genders, the associations 
tended to be stronger for women . 
"Since" Versus "Because." In cases where the meaning of "since" is ambiguous 
(it could be either "from a time in the past" or "because"), replace "sine e" with 
"because." If the meaning is not ambiguous, it is acceptable to use either "sine e" 
or "because" to mean "because." 
Precise: Participants were leaving beca use the light turned green. 
Imprecise: Participants were leaving since the light turned green. 
4.23 Misplaced and Dangling Modifiers 
An adjective or an adverb, whether a single word or a phrase, must clearly refer 
to the word that it modifies. Having modifiers without clear referents can make 
it hard for readers to foHow the logic of your sentence. 
Misplaced Modifiers. Because of their placement in a sentence, misplaced mod-
ifiers ambiguously or illogicaHy modify a word. Eliminate misplaced modifiers 
by placing an adjective or an adverb as close as possible to the word it modifies. 


=== PDF PAGE 143 ===
124 
C\.v 
WRITING STYLE AND GRAMMAR 
Correct 
Incorrect 
Rationale 
Using this procedure, the investi-
The investigator tested 
The incorrect sentence 
gator tested the participants. 
the participants using this 
is unclear about whether 
The investigator tested the 
-procedure. 
the investigator or the 
participants who were using 
participants used this 
the procedure. 
procedure. 
On the basis of this assumption, we 
Based on this assumption, 
The incorrect construc-
developed a model . 
we developed a model. 
tion says, "we are based 
Based on this assumption, the 
on this assumption." 
model ... 
Many writers misplace the word "only." Place "only" next to the word or phrase 
it modifies. 
Correct 
These data provide only a 
partial answer. 
Incorrect 
These data only provide a 
partial answer. 
Rationale 
The answer is partial, 
not the providing of it. 
Squinting modifiers are a type of misplaced modifier. Because of their ambigu-
ous placement, they make it difficult to tell whether the modifier refers to the 
phrase before or after the modifier. 
Correct 
My comprehension is improved 
when I read slowly. 
Incorrect 
Reading books slowly 
improves my comprehension. 
Rationale 
It is unclear whether 
the reading or the 
improvement is slow. 
¡ 
Dangling Modifiers. Dangling modifiers have no referent in the sentence. Many 
ofthese result from the use ofthe passive voice (see Section 4.13). You can avoid 
many dangling modifiers by writing in the active voice. 
Correct 
Incorrect 
Rationale 
Using this procedure, I tested the 
The participants were tested 
1, not the participants, 
participants. 
using this procedure. 
used the procedure. 
Armitage and Martinez (2017) found 
Congruent with other studies, 
The result, not 
that the treatment group performed 
Armitage and Martinez (2017) 
Armitage and Martinez, 
better, a result congruent with those 
found that the treatment 
is congruent. 
of other studies. 
group performed better. 
4.24 Parallel Construction 
To enhance readers' understanding, present parallel ideas in parallel or coordi-
nate formo Use parallel structure in compound sentences, series and lists (see 
Sections 6.49-6.52), and table stubs (se e Section 7.12). 
Repetition of Parallel Elements. Ensure that all elements of the parallelism are 
present before and after the coordinating conjunction (e.g., "and;' "but," "or;' 
"nor"). For example, if the first part of the clause is introduced by "that," the 
second part of the clause should be as well. When a clause has two parts (and 
not three or more), do not use a comma or semicolon before the conjunction. 


=== PDF PAGE 144 ===
Strategies to Improve Your Writing 
C\v 125 
Correct: Ford (2020) found that homework is positively related to achievement and that 
the association is strongerin middle and high school than in elementary schooL 
'ncorrect: Ford (2020) found that homework is positively related to achievement, and that 
the associationis stronger in middleand high school than in elementary school. 
Coordinating Conjunctions Used in Pairs. With coordinating conjunctions 
used in pairs ("between ... and," "both ... and," "neither . o o nor;' "either o o o or," 
"not only o .. but also"), place the first conjunction immediately before the first 
part of the parallelismo 
"Between" and ':4.ndo" 
Correct: We recorded the difference between the performance of participants who com-
pleted the first task and the performance of those who completed the second task. 
'ncorrect: We recorded the difference between the performance of participants who com-
pleted the first task and the second task. 
Correct: between 2.5 and 400 years old 
'ncorrect: between 2.5-4.0 years old 
"Both" and ':4.nd." 
Correct: The names were difficult both to pronounce and to spelL 
'ncorrect: The names were difficult both to pronounce as well as to spell. 
Never use "both" with "as well as": The resulting construction is redundanto 
"Neither" and "Nor"; "Either" and "Or." 
Correct: Neither the responses to the auditory stimuli nor the responses to the tactile 
stimuli were repeatedo 
'ncorrect: Neither the responses to the auditory stimuli nor to the tactile stimuli were 
repeatedo 
Correct: The respondents either gave the worst answer or gave the best answer. 
Correct: The respondents gave either the worst answer or the best answero 
'ncorrect: The respondents either gave the worst answer or the best answer. 
"Not On/y" and "But Alsoo" 
Correct: It is surprising not only that pencil-and-paper seo res predicted this result but 
also that all other predictors were less accurateo 
'ncorrect: It is not only surprising that pencil-and-paper scores predicted this result but 
also that all other predictors were less accurate. 
Elements in a Series. Elements in a series should also be parallel in formo 
Correct: The participants were told to make themselves comfortable, to read the instruc-
tions, and to ask about anything they did not understand. 
'ncorrect: The participants were told to make themselves comfortable, to read the instruc-
tions, and that they should ask about anything they did not understando 
Strategies to Improve Your Writing 
Good writing is a skilllearned through practiceo In this section, we recommend 
strategies to improve your writing. These strategies can aid both professionals 
preparing manuscripts for journal submission and students preparing papers 
for course submission. 


=== PDF PAGE 145 ===
126 ~ WRITING STYLE AND GRAMMAR 
4.25 Reading to Learn Through Example 
Reading is one of the most effective practices for authors to improve their writ-
ing because it enables them to learn thraugh example. For instance¡ a student 
tasked with writing a literature review would benefit fram reading other litera-
. ture reviews (including the literature review sections oflonger works) to see the 
various ways in which information can be organized and discussed. Likewise, 
an author who needs to present complex statistical information in atable would 
benefit from seeing how other authors have organized similar information in 
their tables. Careful reading in your chosen area of study will help you learn 
about not only new developments in the field but also ways to effectively convey 
information on the page. 
4.26 Writing From an Outline 
Writing from an outline ensures that the flow of your paper reflects the logic of 
your research or ideas. Creating and using an outline helps you identify main 
ideas, define subordinate ideas, focus your writing, avoid tangential excursions, 
and find omissions. In the outline, you can also designate headings and subhead-
ings you will use in your paper (see Sections 2.26-2.27 for more on principIes 
of organization and levels of heading). Outlines can take many forms, including 
the traditional format with Roman numeral headings or a concept map. 
4.27 Rereading the Draft 
Rereading your own work after setting it aside for a few hours or days allows 
you to look at it fram a fresh perspective. Taking the further step of reading 
your paper aloud may reveal faults that you previously overlooked and may 
help strengthen the tone and style ofyour writing. You can also try reading the 
sections of your paper in reverse order- from the conclusion back to the intro-
duction-to ensure that you have set up arguments appropriately. Budget ample 
time when writing to allow yourself to take advantage of these strategies. 
4.28 Seeking Help From Colleagues 
After you have reread your draft, give a revised copy to a colleague-preferably 
a person who has published in or studied a related field but who is not familiar 
with your own work- for a critical review. Even better, get critiques from two 
colleagues, and you will have a trial run of a journal's review pracess. Students 
are also encouraged to solicit feedback fram their instructor and peers. 
4.29 Working With Copyeditors and Writing Centers 
Sorne writers, particularly new writers and those writing in a nonnative lan-
guage, may benefit from extra help with their writing. They might hire a copy-
editor to review and proofread their paper or visit a tutor at a university writing 
center. A copyeditor or writing center tutor can assist with idiomatic language 
use, organization, and other areas. We highly recommend use of these services 
for authors who consistently face obstacles in getting their work published 
or students who would like to attain more success in the classroom. Students 
should check the academic integrity policies of their institution to determine 
what kinds of assistance are acceptable. 


=== PDF PAGE 146 ===
Strategies to Improve Your Writing 
~ 127 
,4.30 Revising a Paper 
Revising a draft intoa polished paper takes time and effort. Writers should 
develop a revision plan. Itis best tostartwith the big picture and work down to 
the details. Consider the following broad questions when reviewing you'r paper: 
• Is the central point ot thesis of your paper clear? Do the arguments follow 
logically from the thesis? 
• Is the information well organized? 
• For students, does the draft meet the parameters of the assignment? If there 
is a rubric for the assignment, does the paper address each element of the 
rubric? 
• For authors seeking publication, do es the draft fit the journal style and for-
matting requirements (see Sections 12.2-12.4)? 
At the detaillevel, check sentences for correct grammar and usage (see Sections 
4.12-4.24). Also check for spelling and grammar errors using the automatic 
spell-check and grammar-check functions of your word-processing programo 
Although an electronic spell-check cannot take the place of careful proofread-
ing (because words spelled correctly may be used incorrectly), it willlessen the 
chances that typographical errors make their way into the published article or 
the submitted assignment. APA uses Merriam-Websters Dictionary and the APA 
Dictionary 01 Psychology as its authorities' on spelling (for additional information 
on spelling, see Sections 6.11-6.12). Grammar-check functions are useful for 
identifying problematic sentence structure. Keep in mind, however, that gram-
mar is complex and therefore grammar-checkers are not infallible. 
Although the Publication Manual addresses many aspects of grammar and 
usage, it focuses on the areas that are the most problematic for writers of schol-
arly work. For grammatical questions not addressed in the Publication Manual, 
consult a trusted grammar reference. 


=== PDF PAGE 147 ===


=== PDF PAGE 148 ===
Contents 
General Guidelines for Reducing Bias 
5.1 Describe at the Appropriate Level of Specificity 
132 
5.2 Be Sensitive to Labels 
133 
Reducing Bias by Topic 
5.3 Age 
135 
5.4 Disability 
136 
5.5 Gender 138 
5.6 Participation in Research 
141 
5.7 Racial and Ethnic Identity 142 
5.8 Sexual Orientation 
145 
5.9 Socioeconomic Status 
147 
5.10 Intersectionality 
148 
132 
135 
