
=== PDF PAGE 297 ===
9 
REFERENCE LIST 
The reference list at the end of a paper provides the information necessary 
to identify and retrieve each work cited in the texto Choose references judi-
ciously, and include only the works that you used in the research for and 
preparation of your paper. APA publications and other publishers and insti-
tutions using APA Style generally require reference lists, not bibliographies. 
A reference list cites works that specifieally support the ideas, claims, and 
concepts in a paper; in contrast, a bibliography cites works for background 
or further reading and may include descriptive notes (e.g., an annotated bib-
liography; see Section 9.51). 
In this chapter, we provide guidelines for creating reference list entries, 
with specific sections focusing on each reference element (author, date, title, 
source) and the format and order of an APA Style reference listo For informa-
tion on crediting works in the text and formatting in-text citations, see Chapter 
8; for examples of specific reference types, see Chapter 10 (these examples are 
cross-referenced within this chapter). 
Reference Categories 
9.1 Determining the Reference Category 
References in the PublicationManual are organized by group, category, and type. 
Reference groups are textual works; data sets, software, and tests; audiovisual 
media; and online media. Each group contains numbered reference categories. 
For example, the textual works group contains the categories of periodicals, 
books and reference works, edited book chapters and reference work entries, 
and dissertations and theses. The online media group contains the categories 
281 


=== PDF PAGE 298 ===
282 
~ REFERENCE LlST 
of social media and webpages and websites. Within each category are different 
reference types. For example, the periodical reference category includes journal 
articles, magazine articles, newspaper articles, and blog posts. The social media 
reference category includes tweets, Facebook posts, and Instagram photos. 
To create a reference list entry, first determine the reference group and cat- . 
egory and then choose the appropriate reference type within the category and 
follow that example. If the work you want to cite do es not match any exam-
pIe, choose the group, category, and type that are most similar and adapt the 
format using the elements shown in the relevant template. How a work was 
accessed or obtained (e.g., online, in print, via interlibrary loan) and how it 
is formatted (e.g., print, PDF, DVD, online streaming video) have little, if any, 
impact on the reference list entry. See Chapter 10 for reference templates and 
examples. 
9.2 Using the Webpages and Websites Reference Category 
The term "website" can cause confusion because people use it to refer to 
both a reference category (see Section 10.16) and a method of retrieval (i.e., 
online). Many types of works can be retrieved online, including articles, 
books, reports, and data sets, but only sorne works fall into the webpages and 
websites reference category. Use that category only when the work do es not 
better fit within another category. First ask yourself, "What type of work is 
on this website?" Then choose the reference category in Chapter 10 that is 
most similar to the work you want to cite and follow the most relevant exam-
pIe. For example, to cite a report fram a government website, use the reports 
category (Section 10.4) and follow the format for a government report (see 
Chapter 10, Examples 50-52). Likewise, to cite a webpage from a government 
website, use the webpages and websites category (Section 10.16) and follow 
the format for a work on a website (see Chapter 10, Examples 110-114). Note 
that the author of a webpage or website may be difficult to determine or may 
be identified through context (see Section 9.7), and webpages and websites 
often have unknown dates of publication (see Section 9.17). 
9.3 Online and Print References 
APA Style references for online and print works are largely the same. All ref-
erences generally include the author, date, title, and source; differences 
between online and print versions are evident within the source elemento 
The source element includes information about where the work carne from 
(e.g., a periodical's title, a book's or report's publisher, a website's name). Ref-
erences for works with DOIs also include the DOI in the source element, and 
references for most online works without DOIs include the work's URL (see 
Section 9.34 for more on when to include DOIs and URLs). However, data-
base information and/or database URLs are not usually included in references 
(see Section 9.30 for an explanation and a few exceptions). Thus, the same 
template can be used to create a reference for both the print and online 
versions of a work. Use only one template (not multiple templates) to create 
your reference entry. 


=== PDF PAGE 299 ===
Principies of Reference List Entries 
~ 283 
Principies of Reference List Entries 
9.4 Four Elements ofa Reference 
A reference generally has four elements: author, date, title, and sourte. Each 
element answers a question: 
• author: Who is responsible for this work? 
• date: When was this work published? 
• title: What is this work called? 
• source: Where can 1 retrieve this work? 
Considering these four elements and answering these four questions will help 
you create a reference for any type of work, even if you do not see a specific 
example that matches it. See the sections on the author (Sections 9.7- 9.12), date 
(Sections 9.13-9.17), title (Sections 9.18-9.22), and source (Sections 9.23- 9.37) for 
more information on each elemento Figure 9.1 shows an example of an article 
title page highlighting the locations of the reference elements and showing their 
placement in a reference list entry. 
Sometimes reference elements are unknown or missing and the reference 
list entry must be adapted. See Table 9.1 for a summary of how reference ele-
ments are assembled and adjusted when information is missing. 
Figure 9.1 Example of Where to Find Reference Information for a Journal Article 
.~.AMHICAI-I 
~ 
~ 
PSYCHOlOGICAl 
Date 
Developmental Psychology 
~
A5S0CI ATIO" 
When was this 
., 20J 8 Amcrk-dn P~yc h{)l..,gi~,,1 A.~,ociu!ion 
work published? 
!018, Vol. 5~. No. 9. n;»-I73~ +-
1I011· J64CJI18f$12.0(l 
hnp:J"h. doLoq;tIO.1037f~\'()1)()(J548 
Sensitivity to the Evaluation of Others Emerges by 24 Months 
t 
Sara Valencia BOllO and Philippe Rochat 
Source 
~EIllOry UlliverSi'/ 
Where can I 
Title 
retrieve this work? 
What is this work 
Author 
called? 
Who is responsible 
for this work? 
.. ........ ...... ...... ... ... . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .... ... ... ......... ......... ... ... . ......................... . . ... ... 
Reference list entry: 
Botto, S. v., & Rochat, P. (2018). Sensitivity to the evaluation of others emerges by 24 months. 
Author 
Date 
Title 
Deve/opmental Psychology, 54(9), 1723-1734. https://doi.org/10.1037/devOOO0548 
Source 


=== PDF PAGE 300 ===
284 ~ REFERENCE LlST 
Table 9.1 How to Create a Reference When Information Is Missing 
Missing 
element 
Solution 
Template 
Reference list entry 
In-text citation 
Nothing-all 
elemerits are 
present 
Provide the author, date, title, and 
source of the work. 
Author. (Date). Title. 
Source. 
(Author, year) 
Author (year) 
Author 
Date 
Title 
Author and 
date 
Author and 
title 
Provide the title, date, and source. 
Provide the author, write "n.d." for 
"no date," and then provide the title 
and source. 
Provide the author and date, describe 
the work in square brackets, and then 
provide the source. 
Provide the title, write "n.d." for "no 
date," and then provide the source. 
Describe the work in square brackets, 
and then provide the date and 
source. 
Title. (Date). Source. 
Author. (n.d.). Title. 
Source. 
Author. (Date). 
[Description of 
work]. Source. 
Title. (n.d.). Source. 
[Description of 
work]. (Date). 
Source. 
(Title, year) 
Title (year) 
(Author, n.d.) 
Author (n.d.) 
(Author, year) 
Author (year) 
(Title, n.d.) 
Title (n.d.) 
([Description of workJ, year) 
[Description of work] (year) 
Date and title 
Provide the author, write "n.d." for 
"no date," describe the work in 
square brackets, and then provide 
the source. 
Author. (n.d.). 
[Description of 
work]. Source. 
(Author, n.d.) 
Author (n.d.) 
Author, date, 
and title 
Describe the work in square brackets, 
write "n.d." for "no date," and then 
provide the source. 
[Description of 
work]. (n.d.). 
Source. 
([Description of workJ, n.d.) 
[Description of work] (n.d.) 
Source 
Cite as a personal communication 
(see Section 8.9) or find another work 
to cite (see Section 9.37). 
No reference list 
entry 
(c. C. Communicator, 
personal communication, 
month day, year) 
C. C. Communicator 
(personal communication, 
month day, year) 
Note. This table illustrates how reference category templates change when reference elements such as the author (Section 
9.12), date (Section 9.17), title (Section 9.22), and/or source (Section 9.37) are missing. Italic formatting within the title or source 
varies by category and is not shown here. To create a reference list entry, follow the template for the work's reference category 
(see Section 9.1) and adjust the information as shown here. 
9.5 Punctuation Within Reference List Entries 
Use punctuation marks within reference list entries to group information. 
• Ensure that a period appears after each reference element-that is, after the 
author, date, title, and source. However, do not put a period after a DOI or 
URL because it may interfere with link functionality. 
• Use punctuation marks (usually commas or parentheses) between parts of 
the same reference elemento For example, in a reference for a journal arti-
ele, use a comma between each author's last name and initials and between 
different authors' names, between the journal name and the volume number, 
and between the journal issue number and the page numbers. Do not use a 
comma between thejournal volume and issue numbers; place the issue num-
ber in parentheses instead (see Section 9.25 and Chapter 10, Example 1). 


=== PDF PAGE 301 ===
Author 
~ 285 
.• Italicize punctuation marks that appear within an italic reference element 
(e.g., a comma or colon within a book title). Do not italicize punctuation 
between reference elements (e.g., the period after an italic book title). 
9.6 Accuracy and Consistency in References 
Because one purpose of listing references is to enable readers to retrieve and 
use the cited works, reference data must be accurate and complete. The best 
way to ensure that information is accurate and complete is to check each ref-
erence carefully against the original publication. Authors are responsible for all 
information in their reference lists. Accurately prepared references help estab-
lish your credibility as a careful researcher and writer. 
Consistency in reference formatting allows readers to focus on the content 
of your reference list, discerning both the types of works you consulted and the 
important reference elements (who, when, what, and where) with ease. When 
you present each reference in a consistent fashion, following APA Style refer-
ence guidelines, readers do not need to spend time determining how you orga-
nized the information. And when searching the literature yourself, you also save 
time and effort when reading reference lists in the works of others. Sorne works 
contain suggested citations; these citations often contain the information nec-
essary to write an APA Style reference but need editing for style. 
Accuracy and consistency of references are also important for ensuring that 
other researchers can find and access the works in your reference listo For exam-
pIe, in the online version of an article, publishers use computer algorithms to 
link in-text citations to reference list entries within the article, link the reference 
list entries to the works they cite, and compile lists of works that have cited each 
source. If reference elements are out of order or incomplete, the algorithm may 
not recognize them, lowering the likelihood that the reference will be captured 
for indexing. When in doubt, place reference elements in the order of author, 
date, title, and source. 
Reference Elements 
Author 
The following sections describe the definition, format, and spelling of author 
names (Sections 9.7-9.9); the identification of specialized author roles, such as 
editor or director (Section 9.10); and how to han dIe group authors (Section 9.11) 
and works without an author (Section 9.12). 
9.7 Definition of Author 
In a reference, the author refers broadly to the person(s) or group responsible 
for a work. This element includes not only author(s) of articles, books, reports, 
and other works but also others who played primary roles in the creation of a 
work, such as the editor(s) of a book, the director of a film, the principal investi-
gator of a grant, a podcast host, and so on. 


=== PDF PAGE 302 ===
286 ~ REFERENCE LlST 
An author may be 
• an individual, 
• multiple people, 
• a group (institution, goveniment agency, organization; see Section 9.11), or 
• a combination of people and groups. 
Sometimes the author of a work is not listed in a traditional byline but can be 
determined from context. For instance, the author of an annual report is usu-
ally the organization that produced it, unless otherwise specified in the reporto 
Thus, in the reference list entry for that annual report, the organization would 
be listed as the author. Likewise, in the reference for a page from an organiza-
tional or government agency website, the organization or government agency 
itself is considered the author, unless otherwise specified. The author of a web-
page or website may also be located on an "about us" or acknowledgments page. 
When you cannot determine who the author is, treat the work as having no 
author (see Section 9.12). 
9.8 Format of the Author Element 
Follow these guidelines to format the author element. 
• Invert all individual authors' names, providing the surname first, followed by 
a comma and the initials: Author, A. A. 
• Use a comma to separate an author's initials from additional author names, 
even when there are only two authors; use an ampersand (&) before the final 
author's name: Author, A. A., & Author, B. B. 
• Do not use a comma to separate two group authors: American Psychologkal 
Association & National Institutes ofHealth. 
• Use a serial comma before the ampersand (&) with three or more authors. 
• Provide surnames and initials for up to and including 20 authors. When 
there are two to 20 authors, use an ampersand before the final author's name: 
Author, A. A., Author, B. B., & Author, C. C. 
• When there are 21 or more authors, include the first 19 authors' names, insert 
an ellipsis (but no ampersand), and then add the final author's name (see 
Chapter 10, Example 4). 
• Use one space between initials. 
• When given names are hyphenated, retain the hyphen and include a period 
after each initial but no space (e.g., Xu, A.-J., for Ai-Jun Xu). When the sec-
ond element of a hyphenated name is lowercase, treat it as a single name (e.g., 
Raboso, L., for Lee-ann Raboso). 
• Use commas to separate initials and suffixes such as Jr. and III: Author, A. A., 
Jr., & Author, B. B. 
• If nonprimary authors are credited using the word "with" (e.g., on a book 
cover), include them in the reference list entry in parentheses: Meyers, K. 
(with Long, W. T.). The in-text citation, however, refers to the primary author 
only: (Meyers, 2019). 


=== PDF PAGE 303 ===
Author 
co..v 
287 
• If an author has only one name (e.g., sorne celebrities, sorne authors from 
Indonesia, ancient Greek and Roman authors, sorne group or corporate 
authors); an inseparable multipart name (e.g., Malcolm X, Lady Gaga); an 
essential title,in rare cases (Queen Elizabeth 11); or a username (or 'screen 
name) only, provide thefull name or username without abbreviation in both 
the reference list and the in-text citation. That is, cite Plato, Sukarno, or Lady 
Gaga; do not abbreviate these names to P.; S.; or Gaga, 1. In the reference list 
entry, add a period after the author's name: Plato. (2017). 
• Do not include titles, positions, ranks, or academic achievements with names 
in reference list entries (e.g., Reverend, President, General, PhD, LCSW). A 
few reference types include an author's role in parentheses, when needed 
(e.g., film director; see Chapter 10, Example 84). 
• If both an author's username and real name are known, such as for sorne 
individual and group social media authors, provide the real name of the 
individual (in inverted format) or group, followed by the username in square 
brackets (se e examples in Section 10.15). This approach allows the reference 
to be grouped with any other works by that author in the reference list and 
will aid readers in identirying and retrieving the cited work. 
• When the @ symbol is part of a username, include that symbol with the user-
name in brackets (see Chapter 10, Examples 103-108). 
9.9 Spelling and Capitalization of Author Names 
Follow these guidelines for proper spelling and capitalization of author names. 
• Write the author's surname exactly as it appears in the published work, 
including hyphenated surnames (e.g., Santos-García) and two-part surnames 
(e.g., Velasco Rodríguez; see also Chapter 10, Example 25). 
• If uncertain about the proper format for a name, consult other works that 
cite that author, bibliographic database records, or the author's website or 
curriculum vitae (CV) to determine the appropriate formato This will help 
avoid mistaking, for example, a two-part surname for a middle name and sur-
name or vice versa. Follow the most common presentation if any ambiguity 
remains. 
• Retain the author's preferred capitalization (e.g., hooks, b., for bell hooks) in 
both the reference list and the in-text citation. 
9.10 Identification of Specialized Roles 
People in roles other than author who contributed substantially to the creation 
of a work are recognized for a variety of reference types. See the examples in 
Chapter 10 for instances when a specialized role is credited in the reference. In 
these references, the role is placed in parentheses after the inverted surname 
and initials. Put a period at the end of the author elemento 
• Use the abbreviation "(Ed.)" for one editor and the abbreviation "(Eds.)" for 
multiple editors. In the case of multiple editors, include the role once. 
Schulz, O. P. (Ed.). 
Wong, C. T., & Music, K. (Eds.). 


=== PDF PAGE 304 ===
288 
C\.v 
REFERENCE LlST 
• When a reference includes more than one type of specialized role (e.g., both 
writers and a director), and different individuals played different roles, id en-
tify each role separately. If an individualplayed multiple roles, combine the 
roles using an ampersand (&). 
. 
Park, o. (Writer), Gúnnarsson, N. (Writer), & Botha, V. N. (Director). 
Lutz, T (Writer & Director). 
In sorne cases, a specialized role is identified later in the reference (e.g., an edi-
tor of a book for an edited book chapter, see Chapter 10, examples in Section 
10.3; a symposium chair, see Chapter 10, Example 63; a TV series producer, see 
Chapter 10, Example 87). 
9.11 Group Authors 
Group authors may include government agencies, associations, nonprofit orga-
nizations, businesses, hospitals, task forces, and study groups (see Chapter 10, 
Examples 50, 53-55, 90, and 111). A group may author a publication on its own 
or in combination with individuals or other groups (see Chapter 10, Example 5). 
• Spell out the full name of a group author in the reference list entry, followed 
by a period: National Institute of Mental Health. 
• An abbreviation for the group author can be used in the text (see Section 
8.21); however, do not include an abbreviation for a group author in a refer-
ence list entry. 
• When numerous layers of government agencies are listed as the author of a 
work, use the most specific agency as the author in the reference (e.g., use 
"National Institute of Nursing Research" rather than "U.S. Department ?f 
Health and Human Services, National Institutes ofHealth, National Institute 
of Nursing Research"). The names of parent agencies not present in the group 
author name appear in the source element as the publisher. This presentation 
aids in identifying the agency responsible for the work and in creating concise 
in-text citations. However, if using only the most specific responsible agency 
as the author would cause confusion (e.g., if you are citing both U.S. and Cana-
dian versions of an agency and they have the same name), then include the 
parent agencies in the author element to differentiate them. When there are 
multiple layers of agencies, the parent body precedes the subdivision (e.g., 
The White House, Office of the Press Secretary). Agencies listed in the author 
element are not repeated in the source element of the reference. 
• Sometimes it can be difficult to know whether to credit a group author or the 
individuals who wrote on behalf of that group; for example, the individuals 
who wrote a government agency report may be credited in an acknowledg-
ments section. To confirm, consult the cover or title page of the work. If the 
cover or title page lists only the name of the group (and no names of indi-
viduals), treat the reference as having a group author (see Chapter 10, Exam-
pIes 50 and 53-55). If the cover or title page lists the names of individuals, 
treat the reference as having individual authors, and include the name of the 
group as part of the source element (see Chapter 10, Examples 51-52). When 
a document includes a suggested reference, the author names included in 
that reference indicate who should be credited (note that the format of the 
suggested reference may need to be adjusted for APA Style). 
-


=== PDF PAGE 305 ===
Date 
C\v 289 
9.12 No Author 
A work is treated as having no author when its author is unknown or cannot 
reasonably be determined. ln this case, move the title ofthe work to the author 
position (followed by a period), before the date of publication (see Chapter 10, 
Example 49). 
' 
Generalized anxiety disorder. (2019). 
If, and only if, the work is signed ''Anonymous,'' use ''Anonymous'' as the author. 
Anonymous. (2017) . 
. See Section 8.14 for how to format the in-text citation for a work with no author. 
See Section 9.49 for how to order works with no authors in the reference listo 
Date 
The following sections describe the definition and format of the date ele-
ment (Sections 9.13- 9.14) and how to handle online works that are updated or 
reviewed (Section 9.15) or that need a retrieval date (Section 9.16), as well as 
works with no date (Section 9.17). 
9.13 Definition of Date 
In a reference, the date refers to the date of publication. The date may take one 
of the following forms: 
• year only; 
• year, month, and day (i.e., an exact date); 
• year and month; 
• year and season; or 
• range of dates (e.g., range ofyears, range of exact dates). 
For books, use the copyright date shown on the work's copyright page as the 
date of publication in the reference, even if the copyright date is different than 
the releas e date (e.g., 2020 would be the date in the reference for a book released 
in December 2019 with a copyright date of2020). For ajournal article reference, 
use the year of the volume, even if it is different than the copyright year. 
When citing webpages and websites (see Section 10.16), ensure that the copy-
right date applies to the content you are citing. Do not use a copyright date from 
a webpage or website footer because this date may not indicate when the con-
tent on the site was published. If a note indicates the "last updated" date of the 
page, use that date if it applies to the content you are citing (see Section 9.15). If 
no separate date of publication is indicated for the work on the webpage, treat 
the work as having no date (see Section 9.17). 
9.14 Format of the Date Element 
Follow the date format and examples shown in each reference category (see 
Chapter 10). Use more specific dates for works that are published more fre-
quently (e.g., year, month, and day for newspaper articles and blog posts). Most 
references include only the year of publication. 


=== PDF PAGE 306 ===
290 ~ REFERENCE LlST 
• Enclose the date of publication in parentheses, followed by a period: (2020). 
• For works from a reference category that includes the month, day, and/or 
season along with the year, put the year first, followed by a comma, and then 
the month and date or season: 
. 
(2020, August 26). 
(2020, Spring/Summer). 
• For unpublished, informally published, or in-progress works, provide the 
year the work was produced (se e Section 10.8). Do not use "in progress" or 
"submitted for publication" in the date element of a reference. 
• If a work has been accepted for publication but is not yet published, use the 
term "in press" instead of ayear (see Chapter 10, Example 8). Do not provide 
a date in the reference until the work has been published. 
• If a work is an advance online publication, use the year of the advance online 
publication in the reference (see Chapter 10, Example 7). 
• If a work includes both an advance online publication date and a final publi-
cation date, use the final publication date in the reference. 
• When the date of original publication is approximate, use the abbreviation 
"ca." (which stands for "circa"; see Chapter 10, Example 36). 
9.15 Updated or Reviewed Online Works 
Sorne online works note when a work was last updated. If this date is available 
and is clearly attributable to the specific content you are citing rather than the 
overall website, use the updated date in the reference (see Chapter 10, Example 
14, for a source retrieved from the UpToDate database). 
Do not include a date of last review in a reference because content that hás 
been reviewed has not necessarily been changed. rf a date of last review is noted 
on a work, ignore it for the purposes of the reference. 
9.16 Retrieval Dates 
Although most online sources can be updated, sorne are inherently designed 
to change (e.g., dictionary entry, Twitter profile, Facebook page; see Chapter 
10, Examples 33, 47,104, and 106) or reflect information that changes over time 
(e.g., UpToDate article, map generated by Google Maps, work on a website 
that updates frequently; see Chapter 10, Examples 14, 100, and 113). Provide a 
retrieval date in the source element when citing an unarchived (i.e., not stable) 
work that is likely or meant to change. Including this date indicates to readers 
that the version of the work they retrieve may be different from the version 
you used. 
For works that may change over time but have archived versions (e.g., 
Cochrane reviews or Wikipedia articles), a retrieval date is not needed because 
the archived version of the page is stable and can be retrieved (e.g., via a per-
malink; see Chapter 10, Examples 13 and 49). The majority of references do not 
include retrieval dates; the types that might are noted in the applicable refer-
ence examples in Chapter 10. The retrieval date, when needed, appears before 
the URL. 
. 
Retrieved October 11,2020, from https://xxxxx 


=== PDF PAGE 307 ===
Tille 
C\.v 
291 
9.17 No Date 
Sometimes the publication date of a work is unknown or cannot be determined. 
For works with no date, write "n.d." (which stands for "no date") in parentheses. 
Put a period after the "n" and after the "d" with no space between the letters. 
-, 
Gagnon, R. (n.d.). 
The date also appears as "n.d." in the corresponding in-text citation. 
(Gagnon, n.d.) or Gagnon (n.d.) 
Title 
The following sections describe the definition and format of the title element 
(Sections 9.18-9.19) and how to handle series and multivolume works (Section 
9.20), use bracketed descriptions (Section 9.21), and account for works without 
a title (Section 9.22). 
9.18 Definition of Title 
In a reference, the title refers to the title of the work being cited. Titles fall into 
two broad categories: works that stand alone (e.g., whole books, reports, gray 
literature, dissertations and theses, informally published works, data sets, vid-
eos, films, TV series, podcasts, social media, and works on websites) and works 
that are part of a greater whole (e.g., periodical articles, edited book chapters, 
and TV and podcast episodes). When a work stand s alone (e.g., a report), the 
title of that work appears in the title element of the reference. When a work is 
part of a greater whole (e.g., ajournal article or edited book chapter), the title of 
the article or chapter appears in the title element of the reference and the title 
of the greater whole (the journal or edited book) appears in the source element 
(see Sections 9.25 and 9.28, respectively). 
9.19 Format of the Title Element 
Follow these guidelines to format the title elemento 
o For works that are part of a greater whole (e.g., journal articles, edited book 
chapters), do not italicize the title or use quotation marks, and capitalize it 
using sentence case (see Section 6.17). 
The virtue gap in humor: Exploring benevolent and corrective humor. 
o For works that stand alone (e.g., books, reports, webpages and websites), ital-
icize the title, and capitalize it using sentence case (see Section 6.17). 
Adoption-specific therapy: A guide to helping adopted chi/dren and their families thrive. 
o For book and report references, enclose in parentheses after the title any 
additional information given in the publication for its identification and 
retrieval (e.g., edition, report number, volume number). Do not add a 
period between the title and the parenthetical information, and do not ital-
icize the parenthetical information. Ifboth edition and volume information 
are included, separate these elements with a comma, placing the edition 
number first. 
Nursing: A concept-based approach to leaming (2nd ed., Vol. 1). 


=== PDF PAGE 308 ===
292 
C>.v 
REFERENCE LlST 
• rf a numbered volume has its own title, the volume number and title are 
induded as part ofthe main title, rather than in parentheses (see Chapter 10, 
Examples 30 and 45). 
• Finish the title element with a periodo However, if the title encls with a ques-
tion mark or exdamation point, that punctuation mark replaces the periodo 
• See Section 6.17 for how to format titles that appear in the text. 
9.20 Series and Multivolume Works 
For a book that is part of a multivolume work, such as a handbook comprising 
three volumes, indude the series title in the reference list entry. For examples of 
titled and untitled volumes, see Chapter 10, Example 30. 
When a book is part of a series of conceptually related but separate works 
(e.g., popular book series such as Harry Potter or the Chronides of Narnia), 
indude only the book title, not the series title, in the reference. Depending on 
the publisher and the series, the series name may be either prominent or hard 
to find; therefore, we recommend omitting it to avoid confusion (see Chapter 
10, Example 31). 
9.21 Bracketed Descriptions 
To help identify works outside the peer-reviewed academic literature (i.e., 
works other than artides, books, reports, etc.), provide a description of the 
work in square brackets after the title and before the periodo The description 
aids readers in identifying and retrieving the work. Examples of works that 
indude bracketed descriptions are sorne audiobooks, gray literature (e.g., 
press releases), audiovisual works (e.g., films, YouTube videos, photographs), 
software and mobile apps, data sets, manuscripts in preparation, and disser-
tations and theses. Bracketed descriptions are also used in social media ref-
erences to indicate attached links or images. Capitalize the first letter of the 
description, but do not italicize the description. 
Comprehensive meta-analysis (Version 3.3.070) [Computer software]. 
The examples in Chapter 10 indude bracketed descriptions where they are 
needed. When in doubt, indude a description. Back-to-back brackets (e.g., 
when a translated title is followed by a description) are acceptable in references. 
Consistency of wording is helpful (see Section 9.6), but you may alter the word-
ing shown in the examples to best convey the information readers need. Use 
succinct descriptions, as shown in the examples in Chapter 10. 
9.22 No Title 
For works without a title, indude a description of the work in square brackets 
instead. 
• When possible, specify the medium in the description of the untitled work 
(e.g., a map) rather than induding two bracketed descriptions. 
[Map showing the population density of the United States as of the year 2010]. 


=== PDF PAGE 309 ===
Source 
~ 293 
.• For untitled comments on periodical articles, include up to the first 20 
words of the comment or post in addition to a description (see Chapter 10, 
Example 18). 
• For untitled social media posts, ihclude up to the first 20 words of the com-
ment of post (in italic) in addition to a bracketed description (see Chapter 10, 
Examples 103, 105, 107, and 108). 
Source 
The following sections describe the definition and format of the source ele-
ment (Sections 9.23-9.24). Then guidelines for handling specific kinds of 
sources are presented, including periodicals (Sections 9.25-9.27); edited book 
chapters and reference work entries (Section 9.28); publishers (Section 9.29); 
databas es and archives (Section 9.30); works with specific locations, such as 
conferences (Section 9.31); social media (Section 9.32); and webpages and 
websites (Section 9.33). Works that have a DOI or URL (Sections 9.34- 9.36) 
and works without a source (Section 9.37) are also addressed. 
9.23 Definition of Source 
In a reference, the source indicates where readers can retrieve the cited work. As 
with titles (see Section 9.18), sources fall into two broad categories: works that 
are part of a greater whole and works that stand alone. 
• The source for a work that is part of a greater whole (e.g., journal article, 
edited book chapter) is that greater whole (i.e., the journal [see Section 9.25] 
or edited book [see Section 9.28]), plus any applicable DOI or URL (see Sec-
tions 9.34-9.36). 
• The source for a work that stands alone (e.g., whole book, report, dissertation, 
thesis, film, TV series, podcast, data set, informally published work, social 
media, webpage) is the publisher ofthe work (see Section 9.29), databas e or 
archive (see Section 9.30), social media site (see Section 9.32), or website (see 
Section 9.33), plus any applicable DOI or URL (see Sections 9.34-9.36). 
• Works associated with a specific location (e.g., conference presentations) 
include location information in the source (see Section 9.31) and, depending 
on the work, may also include a DOI or URL (se e Sections 9.34- 9.36). 
General guidelines on the source element are provided in the following sections; 
see Chapter 10 for templates and examples of source components to include for 
each reference category. 
9.24 Format of the Source Element 
The source element of a reference has one or two parts, depending on the ref-
erence category. For example, the source for a print book without a DOI has 
one part: the book publisher. However, the source for a journal article with a 
DOI has two parts: the periodical information (the journal title, volume num-
ber, issue number, and page range or article number) and the DOr. 
. 
Information in the source may be omitted from the reference to avoid rep-
etition. Namely, when the author and publisher or site name of a book, report, 


=== PDF PAGE 310 ===
294 "'" 
REFERENCE LlST 
webpage, or website are the same, the publisher or site name is omitted from 
the so urce elemento See Sections 9.25 to 9.33 for guidance on formatting the 
source for particular reference categories. 
9.25 Periodical Sources 
When a periodical (i.e., journal, magazine, newspaper, newsletter, or blog) is 
the source, provide the periodical title, volume number, issue number, and page 
range or article number (see Chapter 10, Examples 1-6, 9- 12, 15, and 16). 
Psychology of Popular Media Culture, 5(2), 101-118. 
• Capitalize the title of a periodical using title case (se e Section 6.17), italicize it, 
and place a comma (not italicized) after it. 
• Reproduce periodical titles as shown on the cited work. If the periodical's 
official title includes an abbreviation, reproduce that abbreviated title in the 
reference (e.g., PLOS ONE, JAMA Pediatrics). However, do not abbreviate peri-
odical titles yourself (e.g., do not abbreviate The New England Joumal of Medi-
cine to N Engl J Med). Likewise, do not reproduce abbreviated titles from other 
reference lists or databases (e.g., if you find an article from JAMA Pediatrics in 
PubMed Central, use JAMA Pediatrics in the reference, not PubMed Central's 
abbreviation of JAMA Pediatr). 
• Italicize the volume number. 
• Include the issue number for all periodicals that have issue numbers. Place 
the issue number immediately after the volume number (with no space in 
between), and enclose the issue number in parentheses. Place a comma after 
the closing parenthesis. Do not italicize the issue number, the parentheses, or 
the comma after the issue number. 
-
• Write the page range (or article number; see Section 9.27) after a comma and 
the issue number, without italics. Separate page numbers in a range by an en 
dash, followed by a periodo Separate discontinuous page numbers by commas. 
39-47,50. 
• Finish the periodical information part of the source element with a period, 
followed by a DOlor URL as applicable (see Sections 9.34-9.36). 
9.26 Online Periodicals With Missing Information 
Many online periodicals (e.g., newspapers, blogs) publish articles without vol-
ume, issue, and/or page numbers or article numbers. Omit these elements 
from the reference if they are not present in the cited work. For example, for 
an online newspaper article or blog post, only the title of the periodical (i.e., of 
the newspaper or blog) may be present (see Chapter 10, Examples 16, 17, and 68). 
The New York Times. 
9.27 Article Numbers 
For articles with article numbers (which may be called "eLocators" or another 
term), write the word ''Article'' (capitalized) and then provide the article number 
instead ofthe page range (see Chapter 10, Example 6). 
PLOS ONE, 11(7), Article e0158474. 


=== PDF PAGE 311 ===
Source 
~ 295 
,If an artide with an artide number also has numbered pages (such as in aPDF), 
those page numbers may be used for in-text citations (see Sections 8.23 and 
8.25) but do not appear in the reference list entry. 
9.28 Edited Book Chapter and Reference Work Entry Sources 
For edited book chapters and entries in reference works (e.g., dictionary defini-
tions), the source is the edited book or the whole reference work (see Chapter 
10, Examples 38-48). 
• For works with editors, in the source element of the reference, write the 
word "In" followed by the initials and surnames (not inverted) of the editors. 
If there is one editor, follow that editor's name with "(Ed. )." If there are two or 
more editors, follow the final editor's name with "(Eds.)." Then add a comma, 
the title of the whole book or reference work in italic sentence case (see Sec-
tion 6.17), the page (abbreviated "p.") or page range (abbreviated "pp.") of the 
chapter or entry in parentheses without italics, and a periodo Then provide 
the name ofthe publisher (see Section 9.29). 
In E. E. Editor (Ed.), Title of book (pp. xx- xx). Publisher. 
• If the edited book or reference work has edition or volume information 
in addition to page numbers, indude them in the same parentheses in the 
following order: edition, volume number, and page numbers (separated by 
commas). 
Title of book (2nd ed., Vol. 3, pp. xx-xx). 
• If a numbered book volume has its own title, indude the volume number and 
title after the main title of the book. A colon follows the main title, "Volume" 
is abbreviated "Vol.," and a period follows the volume number, after which 
the volume title appears. 
Main title of book: Vol. 2. Vo/ume title (2nd ed., pp. xx-xx). 
• For a reference work (e.g., Memam-Websters Dictionary, APA Dictionary 01 Psy-
chology, mobile app reference work) with a group author, do not repeat the 
group author name in the source element when the publisher is the same as 
the author. Simply write "In" and the name of the reference work in italics 
(see Chapter 10, Examples 47 and 80). 
• TV episodes, podcast episodes, and songs from albums follow the same pat-
tern as edited book chapters and entries from reference works (see Chapter 
10, Examples 87, 92, and 94). 
• Finish the source element with a period, followed by a DOlor URL as appli-
cable (see Section 9.34). 
9.29 Publisher Sources 
The name of the publisher is provided in the source element for a number of 
reference categories, induding whole books, edited book chapters, reports, 
computer software and mobile apps, and data sets. Do not indude the pub-
lisher location in the reference. Online search makes a work easily discover-
able without it, and it may be undear what location to provide for publishers 
with offices worldwide or online-only publishers that do not readily disdose 
their location. 


=== PDF PAGE 312 ===
296 
C\},.> 
REFERENCE LlST 
o Write the publisher name as shown on the work. followed by a periodo Do 
not abbreviate the publisher name unless it is shown in abbreviated form on 
the work. 
Note: Some publishers may prefer to abbreviate publisher names (e.9., "John 
Wiley & Sons" to "Wiley") to save space in reference list entries; this is acceptable 
as part of a house style. If you intend to publish your work, consult the policies of 
the publisher to determine whether to fol low this practice. 
o The format of publisher names may vary over time and across works (e.g., 
SAGE Publishing vs. Sage Publications); use the spelling and capitalization 
of the publisher name as shown on the work you used. It is not necessary to 
standardize the presentation of a publisher's name if it appears in multiple 
entries in a reference list. 
o If the work is published by an imprint or division, use the imprint or division 
as the publisher (e.g., Magination Press, which is an imprint ofthe American 
Psychological Association, would be used as the publisher). 
o Do not include designations ofbusiness structure (e.g., Inc., Ltd., LLC) in the 
publisher name. 
o If two or more publishers are listed on the copyright page, include all of them 
in the order shown on the work, separated by semicolons (see Chapter 10, 
Example 24). 
Guilford Press; Basic Books. 
o When the author is the same as the publisher (such as with an annual report 
written and published by the same company, a reference book published by 
a professional organization, or a work from an organizational website), omit 
the publisher from the reference to avoid repetition (see Chapter 10, Exam-
pIes 32, 50, 54, and 55). 
o Finish the publisher information component of the source element with a 
period, followed by a DOlor URL as applicable (see Sections 9.34-9.36). 
9.30 Database and Archive Sources 
Database and archive information is seldom needed in reference list entries. 
The purpose of a reference list entry is to provide readers with the details they 
will need to perform a search themselves if necessary, not to replicate the path 
the author of the work personally used. Most periodical and book content is 
available through a variety of databases or platforms, and different readers will 
have different methods or points of access. Additionally, URLs from databases 
or library-provided services usually require a login and/or are session specific, 
meaning they will not be accessible to most readers and are not suitable to 
include in a reference listo 
o Provide datahase or other online archive information in a reference only 
when it is necessary for readers to retrieve the cited work from that exact 
datahase or archive. 


=== PDF PAGE 313 ===
Source 
().v 297 
-
Provide the na me of the database or archive when it publishes original, 
proprietary works available only in that database or archive (e.g., Cochrane 
Database ofSystematic Reviews or UpToDate; see Chapter 10, Examples 
13-14). References for these ~orks are similar to journal article references; 
the name of the database or archive is written in italic title case in the 
source element, the same as a periodical title. 
Provide the name of the database or archive for works of limited circula-
tion, such as 
c> dissertations and theses published in ProQuest Dissertations and Theses 
Global, 
C> works in a university archive, 
C> manuscripts posted in a preprint archive like PsyArXiv (see Chapter 10, 
Example 73), 
C> works posted in an institutional or government repository, and 
C> monographs published in ERIC or primary sources published in JSTOR 
(see Chapter 10, Example 74). 
These references are similar to report references; the name of the data-
base or archive is provided in the source element (in title case without 
italics), the same as a publisher name. 
• Do not include database information for works obtained from most academic 
research databases or platforms because works in these resources are widely 
available. Examples of academic research databases and platforms include 
APA PsycNET, PsycINFO, Academic Search Complete, CINAHL, Ebook 
Central, EBSCOhost, Google Scholar, JSTOR (excluding its primary sources 
collection because these are works of limited distribution), MEDLINE, 
Nexis Uni, Ovid, ProQuest (excluding its dissertations and theses databases, 
because dissertations and theses are works of limited circulation), PubMed 
Central (excluding authors' final peer-reviewed manuscripts because these 
are works oflimited circulation), ScienceDirect, Scopus, and Web of Science. 
When citing a work from one of these databases or platforms, do not include 
the database or platform name in the reference list entry unless the work falls 
under one of the exceptions. 
• If you are in doubt as to whether to include database information in a refer-
ence, refer to the template for the reference type in question (see Chapter 10). 
• Finish the database or archive component of the source element with a 
period, followed by a DOI or URL as applicable (see Sections 9.34-9.36). 
9.31 Works With Specific Locations 
For works associated with a specific location, such as conference presenta-
tions (see Chapter 10, Examples 60- 63; for more, see the Source Variations list 
at the beginning of Chapter 10), include the location in the source element of 
the reference to help with retrieval. Provide the city; state, province, or territory 
as applicable; and country. Use the two-letter postal code abbreviations for U.S. 
states and the analogous abbreviations (if any) for states, provinces, or territories 
in other countries. 
New York, NY, United States 
Vancouver, BC, Canada 
Sydney, NSW, Australia 
Istanbul, Turkey 
Lima, Peru 
London, England 


=== PDF PAGE 314 ===
298 
C\.V 
REFERENCE LlST 
9.32 Social Media Sources 
Use social media as a source only when the content was originally published 
there (e.g., an original Instagram post). If you found a link to content via social 
media (e.g., a pin on Pinterest), cite the content you used directly and do not 
mention that youoriginally discovered it through a link on social media, except 
as necessary in describing your research methodology. 
• When social media is the source (e.g., Instagram photo, tweet, Facebook 
post), provide the social media si te name (in title case without italics) in the 
source element (see Section 6.17): Twitter. 
• Include a period after the social media site name, followed by the URL (see 
Sections 9.34-9.36). 
9.33 Website Sources 
When a website is the source for a webpage (see Section 9.2), followthese guide-
lines to format the website source. 
• Provide the website name (in title case without italics) in the source element 
(see Section 6.17): BBC News. 
• Include a period after the the website name, followed by the URL (see Sec-
tions 9.34-9.36). 
• When the author of the work is the same as the website name, omit the site 
name from the source element to avoid repetition (see Chapter 10, Examples 
111 and 114). In this case, the source element will consist of only the URL of 
the work. 
9.34 When to Inelude 0015 and URLs 
The DOlor URL is the final component of the reference list entry. Because 
so much scholarship is available and/or retrieved online, most reference list 
entries end with either a DOlor a URL. A DOI, or digital abject identifier, is a 
unique alphanumeric string that identifies content and provides a persistent 
link to its location on the internet. It is typically located on the first page of an 
article near the copyright notice, and it starts with "https://doi.orgl" or ''http:// 
dx.doi.org" or "DOI:" and is followed by a string of letters and numbers. DOIs 
begin with the number 10 and contain a prefix and a sufTIx separated by a slash. 
The prefix is a unique number of four or more digits assigned to the organiza-
tion by the International DOI Foundation (https://www.doi.org/); the sufTIx is 
assigned by the publisher and was designed to be flexible with publisher identi-
fication standards. The publisher assigns a DOI to a work when it is published, 
and many publishers have retroactively assigned DOIs to works published prior 
to the implementation of the DOI system in 2000. Registration agencies, such 
as Crossref, use DOIs to provide reference-linking services to the scientific pub-
lishing sector. DOIs can also be found in database records and the reference lists 
of published works. A URL, or unifarm resaurce la catar, specifies the location of 
digital information on the internet and can be found in the address bar of your 
internet browser. 
URLs in references should link directly to the cited work when possible. For 
example, when citing a comment on an online newspaper article, the URL in 
the reference should link to the comment itself rather than to the article or the 


=== PDF PAGE 315 ===
Source 
C\Y 
299 
, newspaper's home page (direct links to comments may be available if you click 
thecomment's time stamp and copy the URL for the comment that appears in 
your browser). 
Follow these guidelines for including DOIs and URLs in references: 
• Include a DOI for all works that have a DOI, regardless of whether you used 
the online version or the print version. 
• If a print work does not have a DOI, do not include any DOlor URL in the 
reference. 
. • If an online work has both a DOI and a URL, include only the DOr. 
• If an online work has a URL but no DOI, include the URL in the reference as 
follows: 
-
For works without DOIs from websites (not including databases), provide 
a URL in the reference (as long as the URL will work for readers). 
-
For works without DOIs from most academic research databases, do not 
include a URL or database information in the reference because these 
works are widely available (see Section 9.30). The reference should be the 
same as the reference for a print version of the work. 
-
For works from databases that publish works of limited circulation (such 
as the ERre database) or original, proprietary material available only in 
that database (such as the UpToDate database), include the name of the 
database or archive and the URL of the work (see Section 9.30). Ifthe URL 
requires a login or is session specific, meaning it will not resolve for read-
ers, provide the URL of the database or archive home page or login page 
instead of the URL for the work. 
-
If the URL is no longer working or no longer provides readers access to the 
content you intend to cite, follow the guidance for works with no source 
(see Section 9.37). 
• Other alphanumeric identifiers such as the International Standard Book 
Number (ISBN) and the International Standard Serial Number (ISSN) are not 
included in APA Style references. 
9.35 Format of 0015 and URLs 
Follow these guidelines to format DOIs and URLs. 
• Present both DOIs and URLs as hyperlinks (i.e., beginning with ''http://'' or 
"https:/n. Because a hyperlink leads readers directly to the content, it is not 
necessary to include the words "Retrieved from" or "Accessed from" before a 
DO! orURL. 
• lt is acceptable to use either the default display settings for hyperlinks in your 
word-processing program (e.g., usually blue font, underlined) or plain text 
that is not underlined. 
• Links should be live if the work is to be published or read online. 
• Follow the current recommendations of the International DOI Foundation 
to format DOIs in the reference list, which as ofthis publication is as follows: 
https://doi.org/xxxxx 


=== PDF PAGE 316 ===
300 ~ REFERENCE LlST 
Here, "https://doi.org/" is a way of presenting a DOI as a link, and ":xxxxx" refers 
to the DOI number. The preferred format of the DOI has changed over time; 
although older works use previous formats (e.g., ''http://dx.doi.orgl'' or "doi:" 
or "DOI:" before the DOI number), in your reference list, standardize DOIs 
into the current preferred format for aH entries. For example, use https://doi .. 
org/1O.1037/a0040251 in your reference even though that article, published in 
2016, presented the number in an older formato 
Why use the new 001 format? The current DOI format presents the DOI as a direct 
link to the work rather than as an unlinked number or a link through a proxy server. 
It simplifies and standardizes retrieva l. 
oSee Chapter 10, Sections 10.1 to 10.3, 10.7, and 10.9, for examples of references 
that include DOIs. 
o Copy and paste the DOlor URL from your web browser direcdy into your 
reference list to avoid transcription errors. Do not change the capitalization 
or punctuation of the DOlor URL. Do not add line breaks manually to the 
hyperlink; it is acceptable if your word-processing program automatically 
adds a break or moves the hyperlink to its own lineo If your work is pub-
lished, the typesetter may break hyperlinks after punctuation to improve 
page flow. 
o Do not add a period after the DOlor URL because it may interfere with link 
functionality. 
9.36 DOlor URL Shorteners 
When a DOlor URL is long or complex, you may use shortDOls or shortened 
URLs if desired. Use the shortDOI service provided by the International DOI 
Foundation (http://shortdoi.org/) to create shortDOls. A work can have only 
one DOI and only one shortDOI; the shortDOI service will either produce 
a new shortDOI for a work that has never had one or retrieve an existing 
shortDOI. 
Some websites provide their own branded shortened URLs, and indepen-
dent URL shortening services are available as well. Any shortened URL is 
acceptable in a reference as long as you check the link to ensure that it takes you 
to the correct location. See Examples 4 and 18 in Chapter 10 for a shortDOI and 
a shortened URL, respectively, used in a reference. 
9.37 No Source 
A reference without a recoverable source cannot be included in the reference 
list because readers cannot retrieve the work. In most cases, nonrecoverable 
sources such as personal emails, classroom lectures, and intranet sources should 
be cited only in the text as personal communications (see Section 8.9). 
Online works that are no longer accessible are considered nonrecoverable 
sources. Before submitting a paper, test the URLs in your reference list to ensure 
that they work and update them as necessary. Do not include broken URLs in 
your paper. If the content you cited is no longer available online, search for an 
archived version of the page on the Internet Archive (https://archive.org/) and 


=== PDF PAGE 317 ===
--
Reference Variations 
~ 301 
use the archived URL. If no archived version of the URL is available, delete the 
reference list entry andsubstitute another reference if possible. 
Reference Variations 
Sorne works may be in another language or translated, reprinted, reissued, or 
republished. For each of these reference variations, additional information about 
the work and/or its publication history is included in the reference list entry. 
9.38 Works in Another Language 
Multilingual authors may cite works published in a language other than the 
language in which they are writing. For example, an author who understands 
both English and Spanish may write a paper in English and cite both English 
and Spanish works. From the perspective of readers of that paper, the language 
in which the paper is written (in this example, English) is considered the main 
language and any other language in the paper (in this example, Spanish) is con-
sidered "another language." 
To cite a work that is in another language, provide the author, date, title, and 
source of the work in the originallanguage as well as a translation of the title in 
square brackets after the title and before the period (see Chapter 10, Examples 
9, 27, and 85). In the case of a work that is part of a greater whole (e.g., an edited 
book chapter), translate only the title of the work being cited (e.g., the chapter 
title; see Chapter 10, Example 41); it is not necessary to translate the title of 
the greater whole (e.g., the book title). So, for example, ifyou are writing in 
English and cite a Spanish work, provide the author, date, title, and source 
in the original Spanish in the reference list, and also provide the title of the 
work translated into English in square brackets. The translation do es not 
have to be literal; the purpose of including the translation is to give readers a 
sense ofwhat the work is about. Use appropriate grammar and punctuation 
in the translated title. Authors writing in any language can implement these 
guidelines. 
If the other language uses a different alphabet from the one you are writ-
ing in, transliterate the alphabet into the Roman alphabet. For example, Dutch, 
English, French, German, Spanish, arid Swahili use the Roman alphabet, 
whereas Amharic, Arabic, Farsi, Hebrew, Hindi, Japanese, Korean, Mandarin, 
and Russian use other alphabets. If transliteration is not possible or advisable, 
it is acceptable to reproduce the original alphabet in the paper. In that case, 
use your judgment about where to alphabetize the reference list entry-Iet 
the order of reference list entries found in other published articles serve as a 
guide- or place the entry at the end of the listo In any case, provide a translation 
of the title of the work in square brackets after the title, before the period (see 
Chapter 10, Example 27). 
9.39 Translated Works 
Cite translated works in the language in which the translation was published. 
For example, if a French article was translated into English and you read the 
English translation, your reference list entry should be in English. Credit the 
translator in the reference for a translated work (see Chapter 10, Examples 10, 


=== PDF PAGE 318 ===
302 ~ REFERENCE LlST 
28, 29, 35, 36, and 42). For all translated works, also provide the year the work 
was originally published in its originallanguage at the end of the reference in 
parentheses in the following format: 
(Original work published 1955) . 
See Section 8.15 for how to write the in-text citation for a translated work. 
9.40 Reprinted Works 
A reprinted work is one that has been published in two place s and is available 
in both (e.g., a journal article that was reprinted as an edited book chapter). 
The reference list entry includes information about both publications to avoid 
the appearance of duplicate publication (see Section 1.16). In the reference list 
entry for a reprinted work, first provide the information for the work that you 
read. Then, in parentheses, provide information about the original publication. 
In Chapter 10, see Example 11 for ajournal article reprinted in another journal, 
Example 43 for a journal article reprinted as a chapter in an edited book, and 
Example 44 for a chapter in an edited book reprinted in another book. See Sec-
tion 8.15 for how to write the in-text citation for a reprinted work. 
9.41 Republished or Reissued Works 
A republished work is one that went out of print (i.e., was no longer available) 
and then was published again; this is common for older works. The term "reis-
sued" is used in the music industry to refer to the same concepto When an 
anthology consists ofworks that were published previously (as opposed to new 
works), the works in that anthology are treated as being republished rather than 
reprinted. To cite a republished or reissued work (e.g., a work republished inan 
anthology), provide the details of the new publication that you used, followed 
by the year the work was originally published in parentheses at the end of the 
reference in the following format: 
(Original work published 1922) 
In Chapter 10, see Example 10 for an example of a republished journal article; 
Examples 28, 29, and 42 for examples of republished books; and Example 46 for 
an example of a work republished in an anthology. See Section 8.15 for how to 
write the in-text citation for a republished work. 
9.42 Religious and Classical Works 
Religious works (e.g., Bible, Qur'an, Torah, Bhagavad Gita), classical works (e.g., 
ancient Greek and Roman works), and classicalliterature (e.g., by Shakespeare) 
are all cited like books (see Section 10.2). 
• Religious works (see Chapter 10, Example 35) are usually treated as having no 
author (see Section 9.12). However, an annotated version of a religious work 
would be treated as having an editor. 
• The year of original publication of a religious work may be unknown or in dis-
pute and is not included in the reference in those cases. However, versions of 
religious works such as the Bible may be republished; these republished dates 
are included in the reference (see Section 9.41 and Chapter 10, Example 35). 


=== PDF PAGE 319 ===
Reference Lisl Formal and Order 
~ 303 
. • For translated religious and classical works, include the translator's name in 
the reference (see Section 9.39 and Chapter 10, Example 28). 
• Classical works (e.g., ancient Greek and Roman works; see Chapter 10, Exam-
pIe 36) and works of classicalliterature (e.g., by Shakespeare; see Chapter 10, 
Example 37) are treated as republished works (see Section 9.41). 
• When the date of original publication for a classical work is ancient, use the 
abbreviation "B.C.E." (which stand s for "before the common era"), and if that 
date is approximate, use the abbreviation "ca." (which stands for "circa"; see 
Chapter 10, Example 36). Dates in the common era do not need to be noted 
as "C.E." ("common era") or ''A.D.'' ("anno Domini"). 
• lf a religious or classical work has canonically numbered parts common 
across editions (e.g., books, chapters, verses, lines, cantos), use these num-
bers instead of page numbers when referring to a specific part of the work 
(see Section 8.13) or directly quoting the work (see Section 8.28). 
See Section 8.28 for how to format the in-text citation for these works. 
Reference List Format and Order 
9.43 Format of the Reference List 
The following guidelines will help you properly format your reference list in 
APA Style: 
• Begin the reference list on a new page after the texto 
• Place the section label "References" in bold at the top of the page, centered. 
• Order the reference list entries alphabetically by author, as described in Sec-
tions 9.44 to 9.48. 
• Double-space the entire reference list (both within and between entries). 
• Apply a hanging indent of 0.5 in. to each reference list entry, meaning that 
the first line of the reference is flush left and subsequent lines are indented 
0.5 in. from the left margino Use the paragraph-formatting function of your 
word-processing program to apply the hanging indent. 
9.44 Order of Works in the Reference List 
Works are listed in alphabetical order in the reference list by the first word of 
the reference list entry, according to the following principIes: 
• Arrange entries in alphabetical order by the surname of the first author fol-
lowed by the initials of the author's given name(s). In APA Style for alphabet-
izing names, "nothing precedes something": Loft, V. H. precedes Loftus, E. F., 
even though "u" precedes "y" in the alphabet. 
• When alphabetizing names, disregard any spaces or punctuation marks (e.g., 
apostrophes, hyphens) in two-word surnames. AIso disregard anything in 
parentheses (e.g., roles like "Eds.") or square brackets (e.g., usernames). 
• Alphabetize entries by authors who have the same given name and surname 
with suffixes indicating birth order chronologically, oldest first. 


=== PDF PAGE 320 ===
304 ~ REFERENCE LlST 
Figure 9.2 Examples of the Order of Works in a Reference List 
Benjamin, A. S., precedes benYaakov, D. 
Denzin, N. K., precedes de Onís, c., precedes Devlin, J. T. 
Girard, J.-B., precedes Girard-Perregaux, A. S. 
Ibn Abdulaziz, T., precedes Ibn Nidal, A. K. M. 
López, M. E., precedes López de Molina, G. 
MacCallum, T., 11, precedes MacCallum, T., 111 
MacNeil, E., precedes McAdoo, Z. C. E., precedes M'Carthy, L. L. 
Olson, S. R., precedes O'Neil, U., precedes Oppenheimer, R. 
Partridge, F., precedes Plato 
San Martin, Q. E., precedes Santa Maria, M., precedes Santayana, F. E. 
Santiago, J., Sr., precedes Santiago, J., Jr. 
Villafuerte, S. A., precedes Villa-Lobos, J. 
See Figure 9.2 for examples of how to order works in the reference listo For fur-
ther examples, review the reference lists of published articles or the sample 
papers on the APA Style website (https://apastyle.apa.org). 
9.45 Order of Surname and Given Name 
Naming practices for the order of given name and surname vary by culture; in 
sorne cultures, the given name appears before the surname, whereas in oth-
ers, the surname appears first. If you are uncertain of which name order you 
are reading, check the author's preferred form (e.g., by visiting their website 
or their institution's website or by reading their bio or CV), or consult the 
author's previous publications to see how their name was presented there. For 
example, an author may publish as "Zhang Yi-Chen" in China but as "Yi-Chen 
Zhang" in the United States; in either case, according to APA Style, this author 
would be listed as "Zhang, Y.-C.," in the reference listo See Section 9.9 for more. 
9.46 Order of Multiple Works by the Same First Author 
When ordering multiple works by the same first author in the reference list, 
include the author's name in every entry. 
• One-author entries should be arranged by year of publication, the earliest 
first. References with no date precede references with dates, and in-press 
references are listed lasto 
Patel, S. N. (n.d.). 
Patel, S. N. (2016). 
Patel, S. N. (2020a). 
Patel, S. N. (2020b, April). 
Patel, S. N. (in press). 


=== PDF PAGE 321 ===
Reference List Format and Order 
C\.Y 
305 
• One-author entries should precede muItipIe-author entries beginning with 
the same first author, even if the multipIe-author work was pubIished earlier. 
Davison, 1. E. (2019). 
Davison, 1. E., & McCabe, M. P. (2015). 
• MultipIe-author entries in which all authors appear in the same order should 
be arranged by the year of pubIication (the same as one-author entries). 
Costa, P. 1., Jr., & McCrae, R. R. (2013). 
Costa, P. 1., Jr., & McCrae, R. R. (2014). 
• MultipIe-author entries with the same first author and different subsequent 
authors should be arranged aIphabetically by the surname of the second 
author or, if the second author is the same, the surname of the third author, 
and so forth. 
Jacobson, 1. E., Duncan, B., & Young, S. E. (2019). 
Jacobson,T E., & Raymond, K. M. (2017). 
Pfeiffer, S. J., Chu, W-W, & Park, S. H. (2018). 
Pfeiffer, S. J., Chu, W-W, & Wall, 1. L. (2018). 
9.47 Order of Works With the Same Author and Same Date 
Ambiguity can arise when multiple works cited in a paper have the same author 
and date (i.e., the same author[s] in the same order and the same year of pub-
lication) because the same in-text citation would then correspond to multiple 
reference list entries. To differentiate references with the same author and year, 
put a lowercase letter after the year in both the in-text citation and the reference 
Iist entry. 
• The Ietter format for references with years is "2020a," "2020b." 
• The Ietter format for references with no date is "n.d.-a," "n.d.-b." 
• The Ietter format for in-press references is in "in press-a," "in press-b." 
Assigning the letters is a two-step process. First, compare the dates. References 
with only a year precede those with more specific dates, and specific dates are 
placed in chronological order. 
Azikiwe, H., & Bello, A (2020a). 
Azikiwe, H., & Bello, A (2020b, March 26). 
Azikiwe, H., & Bello, A (2020c, April 2). 
Second, if the references have identical dates, alphabetize the references by title 
(disregarding the words "A," '~n," and "The" at the beginning of a reference title). 
The following are examples of references in the proper order. 
Judge, 1. A, & Kammeyer-Mueller, J. D. (2012a). General and specific measures in organiza-
tional behavior research: Considerations, examples, and recommendations for research-
ers. Journal of Organizational Behavior, 33(2), 161-174. https://doi .org/ 10.1002/job.764 
Judge, TA, & Kammeyer-Mueller, J. D. (2012b). Onthevalueofaiming high: Thecausesand 
consequences of ambition. Journal of Applied Psychology, 97(4), 758-775. https://doi. 
org/1 0.1 037/a0028084 
However, if references with the same author and date are identified as articles in 
a series (e.g., Part 1 and Part 2), order the references in the series order, regard-
less of the titIes' alphabetical order. 
For citing works with the same author and date in text, see Section 8.19. 


=== PDF PAGE 322 ===
306 ~ REFERENCE LlST 
9.48 Order of Works by First Authors With the Same Surname 
Arrange works by first authors with the same surname and different initials 
alphabetically by first initial(s). 
Taylor, J. M., & Neimeyer, G. J. (2015). 
Taylor, T. (2014). 
The in-text citations for these references also indude the initials of the first 
author (see Section 8.20). These guidelines apply to only the first author in each 
reference. 
If multiple first authors share the same surname and the same initials, order 
the works as described in Sections 9.46 and 9.47. This guideline applies regard-
less of whether the authors are different people or the same person with a name 
change. For guidance on the corresponding in-text citations, see Section 8.20. 
9.49 Order of Works With No Author or an Anonymous Author 
Before treating a work as though it has no author, consider whether a group or 
organization is the author (see Section 9.11). If, and only if, the work is signed 
"Anonymous," begin the entry with the word "Anonymous," and alphabetize the 
entry as if Anonymous were a true name. 
If there is no author and the work is not signed ''Anonymous,'' the reference 
begins with the work's title (see Section 9.12); alphabetize the entry by the first 
significant word of the title (i.e., ignoring the words ''A,'' ''An,'' and "The" at the 
beginning ofthe title). 
Alphabetize numerals as though they were spelled out (e.g., alphabetize 22 as 
though it were "twenty-two"). Thus, "Top 100 business schools" precedes "Top 10 
nursing specialties" because when spelled out, "one hundred" appears alphabet-
ically before "ten." Likewise, "Theological studies" precedes "200 years" because 
"theological" precedes "two hundred." 
For citing works with no author in text, see Section 8.14. 
9.50 Abbreviations in References 
Sorne parts ofbooks, reports, and other publications are abbreviated in the ref-
erence list to save space, including the following examples. Many, but not all, 
reference abbreviations are capitalized. 
I Abbreviation 
Book or publication part 
I 
ed. 
edition 
Rev. ed. 
revised edition 
2nd ed. 
second edition 
Ed. (Eds.) 
editor (editors) 
Trans. 
translator(s) 
Narr. (Narrs.) 
narrator (narrators) 
n.d. 
no date 
p. (pp.) 
page (pages) 
para. (paras.) 
paragraph (paragraphs) 
Vol. (Vols.) 
volume (volumes) 
No. 
number 


=== PDF PAGE 323 ===
Reference List Format and Order 
C\.'Y 
307 
Abbreviation 
Book or publication part 
Pt. 
part 
Tech. Rep. 
techniqll report 
Suppl. 
supplement 
9.51 Annotated Bibliographies 
An annotated bibliography is a type of student paper in which reference list 
entries are followed by short descriptions of the work called annotations. Anno-
. tated bibliographies can also constitute one element of a research paper in 
fields that require bibliographies rather than reference lists. Most APA Style 
guidelines are applicable to annotated bibliographies. For guidance on paper 
margins, font, and line spacing, see Chapter 2. This chapter provides guidelines 
for creating and properly ordering references in an annotated bibliography. For 
templates and examples of reference list entries, see Chapter 10. When writing 
the text of your annotations, consult the writing style and grammar guidelines 
in Chapter 4, the bias-free language guidelines in Chapter S, and the mechanics 
of style guidelines in Chapter 6. In general, it is not necessary to cite the work 
being annotated in the annotation because the origin of the information is clear 
through contexto However, do include in-text citations (see Chapter 8) if you 
refer to multiple works within an annotation to clarify the source. 
Instructors generally set all other requirements for annotated bibliographies 
(e.g., number of references to include, length and focus of each annotation). In 
the absence of other guidance, format an annotated bibliography as follows: 
• Format and order references in an annotated bibliography in alphabetical 
order, the same as you would order entries in a reference list (see Sections 
9.43-9.44 ). 
• Each annotation should be a new paragraph below its reference entry. 
Indent the entire annotation 0.5 in. from the left margin, the same as you 
would a block quotation (see Section 8.27). Do not indent the first line of 
the annotation. 
• If the annotation spans multiple paragraphs, indent the first line of the sec-
ond and any subsequent paragraphs an additional 0.5 in., the same as you 
would a block quotation with multiple paragraphs. 
See Figure 9.3 for an example of an annotated bibliography. 
9.52 References Included in a Meta-Analysis 
Studies included in a meta-analysis (see Sections 3.12 and 3.17) should be incor-
porated alphabetically into the reference list for the paper; the meta-analysis 
references should not be presented in a separate listo Place an asterisk at the 
beginning of each reference that was included in the meta-analysis. On the first 
page of the reference list, below the "References" section label, insert the fol-
lowing statement (indented as a new paragraph) describing the purpose of the 
asterisks: "References marked with an asterisk indicate studies included in the 
meta-analysis." See Figure 9.4 for an example. 
References included in the meta-analysis do not have to be cited in the texto 
However, they can be cited at the author's discretion (e.g., in atable for compar-
ison; see Chapter 7, Table 7.4). In-text citations do not include asterisks. 


=== PDF PAGE 324 ===
308 
C\.V 
REFERENCE LlST 
Figure 9.3 Sample Annotated Bibliography 
Workplace Stress: Annotated Bibliography 
Barber, L. K., Grawitch, M. J., & Maloney, P. W. (2016). Work-life balance: Contemporary perspectives. 
In M. J. Grawitch & D. W. Ballard (Eds.), The psychologically healthy workplace: Building a win-
win environment for organizations and employees (pp. 111-133). American Psychological 
Association. https://doi.org/10.1037/14731-006 
This book chapter provides an overview of the psychosociological concept of work-life balance. 
The authors discuss findings from studies showing harmful effects of work-life conflict on 
psychological and behavioral health as well as beneficial effects of work-life facilitation, wherein 
one role makes a positive contribution to the other. The chapter concludes with a description of 
work-life balance initiatives that organizations have adopted to help employees manage their 
dual work and nonwork obligations and some of the key factors influencing their effectiveness. 
Carlson, D. S., Thompson, M. J., & Kacmar, K. M. (2019). Double crossed: The spillover and crossover 
effects of work demands on work outeames through the family. Journal of Applied Psychology, 
104(2), 214-228. https://doi.org/10.1037/apI0000348 
Carlson et al. (2019) eanducted an empirical study to examine the multiple paths through which 
work and family variables can affect work outeames. Whereas Barber et al. (2016) explored how 
work obligations can increase stress or enhance fulfillment at home, Carlson et al. viewed work 
demands as raising family stress, with potential negative consequences on work performance. 
Results supported a model in which direct effects of work demands and spillover effects of work 
demands to work-to-family conflict led to lower job satisfaction and affective commitment, as 
well as crossover effects of work-to-family eanflict, spousal stress transmission, and later family-
to-work conflict on organizational citizenship and absenteeism. Overall, the study demonstrated 
a link from work demands to work outcomes when considering the family, but those paths 
differed depending on whether altitudinal or behavioral work outcomes were examined. 


=== PDF PAGE 325 ===
Reference List Format and Order 
C\.Y 
309 
'Figure 9.4 Use of Asterisks to Indicate Studies Included in a Meta-Analysis 
35 
References 
References marked with an asterisk indicate studies included in the meta-analysis, 
*Angel, L., Bastin, c., Genon, S" Balteau, E" Phillips, c., Luxen, A" Maquet, P., Salmon, E" & 
Collette, F. (2013), Differential effects of aging on the neural corre lates of 
recollection and familiarity. Cortex, 49(6), 1585-1597, 
https:Udoi,org/l0.1016/ j.cortex,2012.10.002 
Finley, J. R., Tullis, J. G., & Benjamin, A. S. (2010). Metacognitive control of learning and 
remembering, In M. S. Khine & 1. M. Saleh (Eds.), New science of leorning: Cognition, 
computers and collaboration in education (pp, 109-131), Springer. 
https:UdoLorg/l0.1007/978-1-4419-5716-0 6 
*Hanaki, R., Abe, N" Fujii, T., Ueno, A., Nishio, y" Hiraoka, K., Shimomura, T., lizuka, 0" 
Shinohara, M" Hirayama, K., & Mori, E. (2011). The effects of aging and Alzheimer's 
disease on associative recognition memory. Neurological Sciences, 32(6), 1115-
1122. https://doi,org/l0,1007/s10072-011-0748-4 
Hargis, M, B" & Castel, A, D. (2018). Younger and older adults' associative memory for 
medication interactions ofvarying severity, Memory, 26(8),1151-1158. 
https://doi,org/l0,1080/09658211.2018.1441423 


=== PDF PAGE 326 ===


=== PDF PAGE 327 ===
Contents 
Author Variations 
Date Variations 
Title Variations 
Source Variations 
TextualWorks 
10.1 Periodicals 316 
10.2 Books and Reference Works 
321 
10.3 Edited Book Chapters and Entries in Reference Works 
326 
10.4 Reports and Gray Literature 
329 
10.5 Conference Sessions and Presentations 
332 
10.6 Dissertations and Theses 
333 
10.7 Reviews 
334 
10.8 Unpublished Works and Informally Published Works 
335 
Data Sets, Software, and Tests 
10.9 Data Sets 
337 
10.10 Computer Software, Mobile Apps, Apparatuses, and 
Equipment 338 
10.11 Tests, Scales, and Inventories 340 
Audiovisual Media 
10.12 Audiovisual Works 
342 
10.13 Audio Works 
344 
10.14 Visua I Works 
346 
Online Media 
10.15 Social Media 
348 
10.16 Webpages and Websites 350 
314 
315 
315 
316 
316 
337 
341 
348 


=== PDF PAGE 328 ===
10 
REFERENCE EXAMPLES 
Appropriately crediting the contributions of scholars on which your research 
and writing are based is a hallmark of scholarly discourse. These contributions 
must be cited accurately and consistently so that future scholars can identify 
and retrieve the works cited in the texto 
In this chapter, we provide examples of references in APA Style and their 
corresponding in-text citations. The reference examples are organized first by 
group, then by category, and then by type, as follows: 
• The textual works group (Sections 10.1- 10.8) contains the categories of peri-
odicals, books and reference works, edited book chapters and reference 
work entries, reports and gray literature, conference sessions and presenta-
tions, dissertations and theses, reviews of other works, and unpublished and 
informally published works. Within those categories are examples by type 
(e.g.,journal article, edited book chapter, government report, dissertation). 
• The data sets, software, and tests group (Sections 10.9-10.11) contains the 
categories of data sets; computer software, mobile apps, apparatuses, and 
equipment; and tests, scales, and inventories. Within those categories are 
examples by type (e.g., unpublished raw data, entry in a mobile reference 
work, test scoring manual). 
• The audiovisual media group (Sections 10.12-10.14) contains the categories 
of audiovisual works, audio works, and visual works. Within those categories 
are examples by type (e.g., YouTube video, speech audio recording, podcast 
episode, PowerPoint slides). 
• The online media group (Sections 10.15-10.16) contains the categories of 
social media and webpages and websites. Within those categories are exam-
pIes by type (e.g., Instagram photo, tweet, webpage on a news website). 
313 


=== PDF PAGE 329 ===
314 
C\.v 
REFERENCE EXAMPLES 
As described in Chapter 9, the key elements of a reference are the author 
(who), date (when), title (what), and source (where; see also Figure 9.1). For each 
reference category, a corresponding template illustrates the order and format 
in which these elements should appear, and examples of the most common ref-
erence types follow. If you do not see an example that matches the work you . 
want to cite, use the template for the applicable reference categc>ry as a starting 
point for writing the reference list entry. Then select the appropriate option 
from each column of the template to write the reference. Mix and match ele-
ments within a template; it is not necessary to use multiple templates. When 
in doubt, provide more information rather than less. For every reference, the 
in-text citation contains the first two parts of the reference- usually the "who" 
(author) and the "when" (date; see Section 8.11), although this can change if ref-
erence information is missing (see Table 9.1). 
Most legal references (e.g., court cases and laws) are formatted in a legal 
reference style, which is different in several ways from the author-date-title-
source pattern of other APA Style references. Legal references are presented 
in Chapter 11. Additional reference examples, including references to archival 
documents, are available on the APA Style website (https://apastyle.apa.org) 
and on the APA Style blog (https://apastyle.apa.org/blog). 
The following index of reference examples is organized by variations in each 
reference elemento The numbers after each index entry refer to the numbered 
reference examples in this chapter. 
Author Variations 
Type of author 
artist (recording), 91, 92 
artist (visual), 97, 98, 99 
cartographer, 100 
composer, 91, 92 
director, 84, 85, 87 
editor 
in place of author, 12,24, 25, 26, 30, 33, 34 
credited on authored book cover, 23 
executive producer, 86 
group author 
association, company, or organization, 32, 33, 47, 55, 59, 75, 76, 78, 79, 80, 
82,88,90, 100, 103, 104, 105, 107, 108, 109, 111, 113 
government agency, 50, 54, 75, 103, 105, 106, 109, 111, 114 
in combination with individuals, 5 
task force, working group, or other group, 5, 53 
guest expert, 84 
host, 84, 93, 94 
instructor 
of a course, 102 
of a webinar, 89 
interviewee, 95 
narrator, 22, 29 
photographer, 101 


=== PDF PAGE 330 ===
principal investigator, 56 
speaker, 88, 89, 96 
"with" author, see Section 9.8 
writer for TV show, 87 
Name variations 
apostrophe in name, 71, 175 
beginning with a lowercase letter, 95 
hyphenated first name, 24, 74 
hyphenated su~name, 9, 45, 73, 81, 83 
Jr. in name, 96 
one-word name, 36, 92, 98 
prefix included after initials rather than before surname, 92 
transliterated name, 27 
two-part surname, 5, 25, 40, 41, 63, 86, 92, 112 
username or social media identity, 18, 90, 103, 104, 107, 108, 109 
Number of authors 
none, 35, 49 
21 or more, 4 
Date Variations 
Title Variations 
~ 315 
advance online publication (online first publication, epub ahead of print), 7 
ancient (B.e.E.), 36 
approximate (ca.), 36 
in press, 8 
no date, 33,47,82,100,104,106,108,113,114 
range 
ofyears,56,86,93,97 
with year, month, and day, 60, 61, 62, 63 
reprinted, 11, 43, 44 
republished, 29, 35, 36, 37, 46, 91, 92 
republished in translation, 10, 28, 29,42 
retrieval date, 14,33,47, 100, 104, 106, 114 
Title Variations 
edition or version included, 20, 28, 30, 32, 33, 35, 39, 40, 45, 48, 75, 79, 80 
ends with 
exclamation point, 109 
parenthesis, 87 
question mark, 17, 90, 110 
hashtags included, 103 
identification number included, 50, 56, 57, 74, 75, 83 
in another language, 9, 27,41, 85 
no title, 76, 100, 101, 102 
proper noun included, 5,15,27,33,34,35,40,50,51, 52,53,55,59, 65,67,68,69, 
74,75,76, 78, 79,81,8~88,91,95,9~ 105, 10~ 109, 113, 114 
reverse italics, 69 


=== PDF PAGE 331 ===
316 
~ REFERENCE EXAMPLES 
title within a title, 67, 68, 69 
translated, 10, 28, 29, 35, 36, 42 
transliterated, 27 
two subtitles, 50 
volume number for a book, 27, 30, 45 
Source Variations 
article number or eLocator, 6 
location included, 60, 61, 62, 63, 97 
multiple publishers (or studios, etc.), 24, 86, 92, 95 
multivolume work, 30, 45 
publisher (or studio, etc.) same as author, 32, 54, 55 
reprinted, 11, 43, 44 
republished, 29, 35, 36, 37, 46, 91, 92 
republished in translation, 10, 28, 29, 42 
retrieval date, 14,33,47,100,104,106, 114 
shortDOI,4,43 
shortened URL, 18, 22, 29, 62, 68, 90, 100, 105, 108 
special section or special issue, 12 
TextualWorks 
10.1 Periodicals 
-
Periodicals are generally published on a continuous basis and include journals, 
magazines, newspapers, newsletters, and even blogs and other online platforms 
that publish articles. Sometimes the distinctions between periodical types are 
ambiguous-for example, a blog that is hosted on a newspaper website. Regard-
less of where the work appears, its reference list entry follows the same pattern. 
The date element is presented in different formats for journal, magazine, and 
newspaper articles and blog posts (see Examples 1, 15, 16, and 17, respectively). 
When periodical information (e.g., volume number, issue number, page range) 
is missing, omit it from the reference. For online news websites, see Section 
10.16 and Example 110. Use the template shown next to construct references for 
periodical articles. 
Source 
I 
Periodical 
Author 
Date 
Title 
information 
DOlor URL 
Author, A. A., & 
(2020). 
Title of article. 
Tit/e of Periodica/, 
https://doi.org/ 
Author, B. B. 
(2020, January). 
34(2), 5-14. 
xxxx 
Name of Group. 
(2020, February 
Tit/e of Periodica/, 
https://)()()()()( 
Author, C. C. 
16). 
2(1-2), Article 12. 
[username]. 
Tit/e of Periodica/. 
Username. 


=== PDF PAGE 332 ===
Textual Works 
~ 317 
.1. Journal article with a 001 
McCauley, S. M., & Christiansen, M. H. (2019). Language learning as language use: A 
cross-linguistic model of child language development. Psychological Review, 126(1), 
1-51. https://doi.org/10.1 037/rev0000126 
Parenthetical citation: (McCauley & Christiansen, 2019) 
Narrative citation: McCauley and Christiansen (2019) 
2. Journal article without a 001, with a nondatabase URL 
Ahrnann, E., Tuttle, L. J., Saviet, M., & Wright, S. D. (2018). A descriptive review of 
ADHD coaching research: Implications for college students. Journal of Postsecondary 
Education and Disability, 31(1), 17-39. https://www.ahead.org/professional-resources/ 
pu bl ications/j ped/ a rch ived-j ped/j ped-volu me-31 
Parenthetical citation: (Ahmann et al., 2018) 
Narrative citation: Ahmann et al. (2018) 
3. Journal, magazine, or newspaper article without a 001, from most 
academic research databases or print version 
Anderson, M. (2018). Getting consistent with consequences. Educational Leadership, 76(1), 
26-33. 
Goldman, C. (2018, November 28). The complicated calibration of love, especially in 
adoption. Chicago Tribune. 
Parenthetical citations: (Anderson, 2018; Goldman, 2018) 
Narrative citations: Anderson (2018) and Goldman (2018) 
• Do not include the database name or URL. See Section 9.30 for more on exclud-
ing or including database information in references. 
4. Journal article with a 001, 21 or more authors 
Kalnay, E., Kanamitsu, M., Kistler, R., Collins, W, Deaven, D., Gandin, L., Iredell, M., Saha, 
S., White, G., Woollen, J., Zhu, Y., Chelliah, M., Ebisuzaki, W, Higgins, W, Janowiak, 
J., Mo, K. c., Ropelewski, c., Wang, J., Leetmaa, A., ... Joseph, D. (1996). The NCEP/ 
NCAR 40-year reanalysis project. Bulletin of the American Meteorological Society, 
77(3), 437-471. http://doi.orglfg6rf9 
Parenthetical citation: (Kalnay et al., 1996) 
Narrative citation: Kalnay et al. (1996) 
• Because the original DOI was long and complex, a shortDOI is used (see Section 
9.36). Either the long or short form of the DO I is acceptable. 
5. Journal article with a 001, combination of individual and group authors 
De Vries, R., Nieuwenhuijze, M., Buitendijk, S. E., & the members of Midwifery Science 
Work Group. (2013). What does it take to have a strong and independent profession of 
midwifery? Lessons from the Netherlands. Midwifery, 29(10), 1122-1128. https://doi. 
org/1 0.1 016/j.midw.2013.07 .007 
Parenthetical citation: (De Vries et al., 2013) 
Narrative citation: De Vries et a l. (2013) 
• Write the name ofthe group author as shown on the so urce (see Section 9.11). This 
byline included the wording "the members of." 
-- .---r


=== PDF PAGE 333 ===
318 ~ REFERENCE EXAMPLES 
6. Journal article with an article number or eLocator 
Burin, D., Kilteni, K., Rabuffetti, M., Slater, M., & Pia, L. (2019). Body ownership increases 
the interference between observed and executed movements. PLOS ONE, 14(1), 
Article e0209899. https://doi.org/1 0.1371 /journal.pone.0209899 
Parenthetical citation: (Burin et al., 2019) 
Narrative citation: Burin et al. (2019) 
• Capitalize the word "Artiele" before the article number or eLocator. 
7. Journal article, advance online publication 
Huestegge, S. M., Raettig, T., & Huestegge, L. (2019). Are face-incongruent voices harder 
to process? Effects of face-voice gender incongruency on basic cognitive informa-
tion processing. Experimental Psychology. Advance online publication. https://doi. 
org/1 0.1 027/1618-3169/a000440 
Parenthetical citation: (Huestegge et al., 2019) 
Narrative citation: Huestegge et al. (2019) 
• See Section 8.5 for further information on which version of an article to cite. 
8. Journal article, in press 
Pachur, T., & Scheibehenne, B. (in press). Unpacking buyer-seller differences in valuation 
from experience: A cognitive modeling approach. Psychonomic Bul/etin & Review. 
Parenthetical citation: (Pachur & Scheibehenne, in press) 
Narrative citation: Pachur and Scheibehenne (in press) 
9. Journal article, published in another language 
Chaves-Morillo, v., Gómez Calero, c., Fernández-Muñoz, J. J., Toledano-Muño ~, A., 
Fernández-Huete, J., Martínez-Monge, N., Palacios-Ceña, D., & Peñacoba-Puente, C. 
(2018). La anosmia neurosensorial: Relación entre subtipo, tiempo de reconocimiento 
y edad [Sensorineural anosmia: Relationship between subtype, recognition time, and 
age]. Clínica y Salud, 28(3), 155-161. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.clysa.2017.04.002 
Parenthetical citation: (Chaves-Morillo et al., 2018) 
Narrative citation: Chaves-Morillo et al. (2018) 
• When an artiele is in a different language than your paper, inelude a translation 
of the artiele title in square brackets (see Section 9.38). 
10. Journal article, republished in translation 
Piaget, J. (1972). Intellectual evolution from adolescence to adulthood (J. Bliss & H. 
Furth, Trans.). Human Development, 15(1), 1-12. https://doi.org/10.1159/000271225 
(Original work published 1970) 
Parenthetical citation: (Piaget, 1970/1972) 
Narrative citation: Piaget (1970/1972) 
• For more on translated works, see Section 9.39. 
11. Journal article, reprinted from another source 
Shore, M. F. (2014). Marking time in the land of plenty: Reflections on mental health in 
the United States. American Journal of Orthopsychiatry, 84(6), 611-618. https://doi. 
org/1 0.1 037/h01 00165 (Reprinted from "Marking time in the land of plenty: Reflec-
tions on mental health in the United States," 1981, American Journal of Orthopsy-
chiatry, 51[3], 391-402, https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1939-0025.1981.tb01388.x) 


=== PDF PAGE 334 ===
Parenthetical citation: (Shore, 1981 /2014) 
Narrative citaticin: Shore (1981/2014) 
Textual Works 
~ 319 
o 
Provide information for the reprinted version that you used; then provide in 
parentheses the original article title (even ifthe tiÍ:le did not change), year, and 
source information (se e Section 9.40). 
o 
Place the original issue number in square brackets rather than in parentheses to 
avoid nested parentheses. 
12. Special section or special issue in a journal 
Lilienfeld, S. O. (Ed.). (2018). Heterodox issues in psychology [Special section]. Archives 
of Scientific Psychology, 6(1), 51-104. 
McDaniel, S. H., Salas, E., & Kazak, A. E. (Eds.). (2018). The science of teamwork [Special 
issue]. American Psychologist, 73(4). 
Parenthetical citations: (Lilienfeld, 2018; McDaniel et al., 2018) 
Narrative citations: Lilienfeld (2018) and McDaniel et al. (2018) 
o 
List the editor(s) of the special section or issue in the author position and the 
title of the special section or issue in the title position. 
o 
Provide the page range for a special section. Do not provide a page range for a 
special issue. 
o 
Some publishers include an "S" in issue numbers for special issues. In the refer-
ence, write the issue number exactly as shown in the publication. 
o 
For an article within a special section or special issue, follow the format for a 
journal article (see Examples 1- 3), in which case the title of the special section 
or issue does not appear in the reference. 
13. Article from the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 
Mehrholz, J., Pohl, M., Platz, T., Kugler, J., & Elsner, B. (2018). Electromechanical and 
robot-assisted arm training for improving activities of daily living, arm function, 
and arm muscle strength after stroke. Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 
https://doi.org/ l0.l002/14651858.CD006876.pub5 
Parenthetical citation: (Mehrholz et al., 2018) 
Narrative citation: Mehrholz et al. (2018) 
o 
Articles in the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews are available only in 
that database (see Section 9.30). In the reference list, format Cochrane articles 
like periodical articles. Do not italicize the database name if it appears in text. 
14. Article from the UpToDate database 
Morey, M. C. (2019). Physical activity and exercise in older adults. Up ToDate. Retrieved 
July 22,2019, from https://www.uptodate.com/contents/physical-activity-and-
exercise-i n-o I d er-ad u Its 
Parenthetical citation: (Morey, 2019) 
Narrative citation: Morey (2019) 
o 
Articles in the UpToDate databas e are available only in that database (see Section 
9.30) and have information that changes over time. In the reference list, format 
UpToDate articles like periodical articles. Do not italicize the database name if it 
appears in texto 
o 
Use the year of last update in the date element (see Section 9.15). 
o 
Include a retrieval date because the content is designed to change over time and 
versions ofthe page are not archived (see Section 9.16). 


=== PDF PAGE 335 ===
320 
CI.\.> 
REFERENCE EXAMPLES 
15. Magazine article 
Bergeson, S. (2019, January 4). Really cool neutral plasmas. Science, 363(6422), 33-34. 
https://doi.org/l0.1126/science.aau7988 
Bustillos, M. (2013, March 19). On video games and storytelling: An interview with Tom 
Bissell. The New Yorker. https://www.newyorker.com/books/page-turner/on-video-
games-and-storytelling-an-interview-with-tom-bissell 
Weir, K. (2017, January). Forgiveness can improve mental and physical health. Monitor on 
Psychology, 48(1), 30. 
Parenthetical citations: (Bergeson, 2019; Bustillos, 2013; Weir, 2017) 
Narrative citations: Bergeson (2019), Bustillos (2013), and Weir (2017) 
16. Newspaper article 
Guarino, B. (2017, December 4). How will humanity react to alien life? Psychologists 
have some predictions. The Washington Post. https://www.washingtonpost.com/ 
news/speaking-of-science/wp/2017/12/04/how-wi II-humanity-react-to-alien-I ife-
psychologists-have-some-predictions 
Hess, A. (2019, January 3). Cats who take direction. The New York Times, Cl. 
Parenthetical citations: (Guarino, 2017; Hess, 2019) 
Narrative citations: Guarino (2017) and Hess (2019) 
• To cite articles from online news websites (vs. online newspapers as shown here), 
see Example 110. 
17. 810g post 
Klymkowsky, M. (2018, September 15). Can we talk scientifically about free will? Sci:Ed. 
https://blogs.plos.org/scied/2018/09/15/can-we-talk-scientifically-about-free-will/ 
Parenthetical citation: (Klymkowsky, 2018) 
Narrative citation: Klymkowsky (2018) 
18. Comment on an online periodical article or post 
KS in NJ. (2019, January 15). From this article, it sounds like men are figuring something 
out that women have known forever. I know of many [Comment on the article "How 
workout buddies can help stave off loneliness"]. The Washington Post. https://wapo. 
st/2HDToGJ 
Parenthetical citation: (KS in NJ, 2019) 
Narrative citation: KS in NJ (2019) 
• Credit the person who left the comment as the author using the format that 
appears with the comment (Le., a real name or a username). 
• Provide the comment title or up to the first 20 words of the comment; then 
write "Comment on the article" and the title of the article on which the com-
ment appeared (in quotation marks and sentence case, enclosed within square 
brackets). 
• Link to the comment itself if possible (see Sections 9.33-9.34). 
• Because the comment URL was long and complex, it has been shortened (see 
Section 9.36). Either the long or the short form of the URL is acceptable. 
19. Editorial 
Cuellar, N. G. (2016). Study abroad programs [Editorial]. Journal ofTranscu/tural Nursing, 
27(3),209. https://doi.org/l0.1177/1043659616638722 
Parenthetical citation: (Cuellar, 2016) 
Narrative citation: Cuellar (2016) 


=== PDF PAGE 336 ===
Textual Works 
~ 321 
• Use the reference format for the publication in which the editorial was pub-
lished. This example shows an editorial fram a journal; editorials also appear in 
magazines, newspapérs, and other publications. 
. 
• lnclude the notation "Editorial" ih square brackets after the title (except vyhen the 
word "Editorial" is induded inthe title). 
• lf the editorial is unsigned, follow the guidelines in Sections 8.14 and 9.12 for the 
in-text citation and reference list entry, respectively. 
10.2 Books and Reference Works 
The books category includes authored books, edited books, anthologies, reli-
gious works, and classical works. The reference works category includes dic-
tionaries, encyclopedias (including Wikipedia), and diagnostic manuals. For 
ebooks, the format, platform, or device (e.g., Kindle) is not included in the refer-
ence. For audiobooks, include the narrator and audiobook notation only in spe-
cific cases (see Examples 22 and 29). For a chapter in an authored book, create 
a reference for the whole book (see Examples 20-23) and provide the chapter 
numberwith the in-text citation only (see Section 8.13). Use the template shown 
next to construct references for books and reference works. 
Source 
Publisher 
Author or editor 
Date 
Title 
information 
DOlor URL 
Author, A. A., & 
(2020). 
Tit/e of book. 
Publisher Name. 
https://doi. 
Author, B. B. 
Tit/e of book (2nd ed., Vol. 4). 
First Publisher 
org/xxxx 
Name of Group. 
Tit/e of book [Audiobook]. 
Name; Second 
https://)()()()()( 
Editor, E. E. (Ed.). 
Publisher Name. 
Tit/e of book (E. E. Editor, 
Editor, E. E., & 
Ed.). 
Editor, F. F. (Eds.). 
Tit/e of book (T. Translator, 
Trans.; N. Narrator, Narr.). 
20. Authored book with a 001 
Brown, L. S. (2018). Feminist therapy (2nd ed.). American Psychological Association. 
https://doi.org/10.1 037/0000092-000 
Parenthetical citation: (Brown, 2018) 
Narrative citation: Brown (2018) 
21. Authored book without a 001, from most academic research databases or 
print version 
Burgess, R. (2019). Rethinking global health: Frameworks of power. Routledge. 
Parenthetical citation: (Burgess, 2019) 
Narrative citation: Burgess (2019) 
• See Section 9.30 for more on including database information in references. 
22. Authored ebook (e.g., Kindle book) or audiobook without a 001, with a 
nondatabase URL 
Cain, S. (2012). Quiet: The power of introverts in a world that can't stop talking (K. Mazur, 
Narr.) [Audiobook]. Random House Audio. http://bit.ly/2GOBpbl 
I 
l .


=== PDF PAGE 337 ===
322 ~ REFERENCE EXAMPLES 
Christian, B., & Griffiths, T. (2016). Algorithms to live by: The computer scienee of human 
decisions. Henry Holt and Co. http://a.eo/7qGBZAk 
Parenthetieal citations: (Ca in, 2012; Christian & Griffiths, 2016) 
Narrative citations: Cain (2012) and Christian and Griffiths (2016) 
• It is not necessary to note when you used an audiobook versus a book or an ebook 
when the content is the same, even if the format is different. However, do note 
that the work is an audiobook in the title element when the content is different 
(e.g., abridged), if you want to note something special about the audiobook (e.g., 
the impact of the narration on the listener), or if you quote from the audiobook 
(see Section 8.28). 
• If the audiobook was released in a different year from the text version of the 
book, treat the work as republished (see Example 29). 
23. Authored book with editor credited on the book cover 
Meadows, D. H. (2008). Thinking in systems: A primer (D. Wright, Ed.). Chelsea Green 
Publishing. 
Parenthetieal eitation: (Meadows, 2008) 
Narrative citation: Meadows (2008) 
• When an editor is credited on the cover of an authored book, provide the editor's 
name in parentheses after the book title with "Ed." or "Eds." in parentheses (see 
Section 9.10). 
24. Edited book with a DOI, with multiple publishers 
5chmid, H.-J. (Ed.). (2017). Entrenchment and the psyehology of language learning: How 
we reorganize and adapt linguistie knowledge. American Psychological Association; 
De Gruyter Mouton. https://doi.org/10.1037/ 15969-000 
Parenthetieal citation: (5chmid, 2017) 
Narrative citation: 5chmid (2017) 
• Separate multiple publisher names using semicolons. 
25. Edited book without a DOI, from most academic research databases or 
print version 
Hacker Hughes, J. (Ed.). (2017). Military veteran psyehologieal health and social eare: 
Contemporary approaehes. Routledge. 
Parenthetieal citation: (Hacker Hughes, 2017) 
Narrative citation: Hacker Hughes (2017) 
• See Section 9.30 for more on including database information in references. 
26. Edited ebook (e.g., Kindle book) or audiobook without a DOI, with a 
nondatabase URL 
Pridham, K. F., Limbo, R., & 5chroeder, M. (Eds.). (2018). Guided partieipation in pediat-
rie nursing praetiee: Relationship-based teaehing and learning with parents, ehildren, 
and ado/eseents. Springer Publishing Company. http://a.co/OIAiVgt 
Parenthetieal eitation: (Pridham et al., 2018) 
Narrative citation: Pridham et al. (2018) 
• An ebook example is shown. See Example 22 for information about when a nota-
tion is needed after an audiobook title. 


=== PDF PAGE 338 ===
Textual Works 
~ 323 
, 27. Book in another language 
Amano, N" & Kondo, H, (2000). Nihongo no goi tokusei [Lexical characteristics of Japa-
nese language](Vol. 7). Sansei-do. 
Piaget, J., & Inhelder, B. (1966). Lapsychologie de I'enfant [The psychology ofthe child]. 
Ouadrige. 
Parenthetical citations: (Amano & Kondo, 2000; Piaget & Inhelder, 1966) 
Narrative citations: Amano and Kondo (2000) and Piaget and Inhelder (1966) 
o When a book is in a different language than your paper, include a translation of 
the book title in square brackets (see Section 9.38). 
28. Book republished in translation 
,Piaget, J., & Inhelder, B. (1969). The psychology of the child (H. Weaver, Trans.; 2nd ed.). 
Basic Books. (Original work published 1966) 
Parenthetical citation: (Piaget & Inhelder, 1966/1969) 
Narrative citation: Piaget and Inhelder (1966/1969) 
o 
For more on translated works, see Section 9.39. 
29. Republished book, ebook, or audiobook 
Freud, S. (2010). The interpretation of dreams: The complete and definitive text 
(J. Strachey, Ed. & Trans.). Basic Books. (Original work published 1900) 
Rowling, J. K. (2015). Harry Potter and the sorcerers stone (J. Dale, Narr.) [Audiobook]. 
Pottermore Publishing. http://bit. ly/2TcHchx (Original work published 1997) 
Parenthetical citations: (Freud, 1900/2010; Rowling, 1997/2015) 
Narrative citations: Freud (1900/2010) and Rowling (1997/2015) 
o 
If the new version has been edited and/or translated from the original, provide 
the name(s) ofthe editor(s) and/or translator(s) after the title in parentheses. 
o 
If an audiobook was released in a different year than the text version of the book, 
treat the audiobook as republished (see also Example 22 and Section 9.41). 
30. One volume of a multivolume work 
Fiske, S. T., Gilbert, D. T., & Lindzey, G. (2010). Handbook of social psychology (5th ed., 
Vol. 1). John Wiley & Sonso https://doi.org/1O.1002/9780470561119 
Travis, C. B., & White, J. W. (Eds.). (2018). APA handbook of the psychology of women: 
Vol. 1. History, theory, and batt/egrounds. American Psychological Association. https:// 
doi.org/1 0.1 037/0000059-000 
Parenthetical citations: (Fiske et al., 2010; Travis & White, 2018) 
Narrative citations: Fiske et al. (2010) and Travis and White (2018) 
o 
If the volume has both series editors (or editors-in-chief) and volume editors, 
only the volume editors appear in the author elemento 
o 
If the volume does not have its own title, include the volume number in paren-
theses without italics (as in the Fiske et al. example). 
o 
If the volume has its own title, include the volume number and title after the main 
title in italics (as in the Travis & White example). 
31. Book in a series 
Madigan, S. (2019). Narrative therapy (2nd ed.). American Psychological Association. 
https://doi.org/10.1037/0000131-000 
Parenthetical citation: (Madigan, 2019) 
Narrative citation: Madigan (2019) 


=== PDF PAGE 339 ===
324 ~ REFERENCE EXAMPLES 
• For a series of conceptually related titles, the series title is not ineluded in the ref-
erence (this book is part of the Theories of Psychotherapy Series; see Section 9.20). 
32. Diagnostic manual (OSM, ICO) 
American Psychiatric Association. (2013). Diagnostic and statistical manual of mental 
disorders (5th ed.). https://doi.org/l0.1176/appi.books.9780890425596 
World Health Organization. (2019). International statistical c/assification of diseases and 
re/ated hea/th problems (11th ed.). https://icd.who.int/ 
Parenthetical citation with abbreviation inc/uded: 
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (5th ed.; DSM-5; American 
Psychiatric Association, 2013) 
International Statistical C1assification of Diseases and Related Health Problems (11 th 
ed.; ICD-11; World Health Organization, 2019) 
Narrative citation with abbreviation inc/uded: 
American Psychiatric Association's (2013) Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental 
Disorders (5th ed.; DSM-5) 
World Health Organization's (2019) International Statistical Classification of Diseases 
and Related Health Problems (11 th ed.; ICD-11) 
Subsequent parenthetical citations: (American Psychiatric Association, 2013; World 
Health Organization, 2019) 
Subsequent narrative citations: American Psychiatric Association (2013) and World 
Health Organization (2019) 
• When the author and publisher are the same, omit the publisher from the source 
elemento 
• lt is common, but not required, to identifY the title (and edition) of a diagnostic 
manual in the texto Group authors and manual titles can be abbreviated in the 
text (with a few exceptions) but not the reference list (see Sections 6.25 and 8.21). 
• Generally, inelude a citation for a manual the first time it is mentioned in the texto 
lf the first mention appears in a heading, do not cite the manual in the heading; 
rather, cite it within the first paragraph of that section or soon thereafter. 
• Do not repeat the citation for a subsequent general mention of a manual. Repeat 
a citation only when it directly supports a statement (e.g., quoting, paraphrasingj. 
• Additional examples and guidance for citing other editions of and entries in the 
DSM and ICD are available on the APA Style website. 
33. Dictionary, thesaurus, or encyclopedia 
American Psychological Association. (n.d.). APA dictionary of psycho logy. Retrieved June 
14,2019, from https://dictionary.apa.org/ 
Merriam-Webster. (n.d.). Merriam-Webster.com dictionary. Retrieved May 5, 2019, from 
https://www.merriam-webster.com/ 
Zalta, E. N. (Ed.). (2019). The Stanford encyc/opedia of philosophy (Summer 2019 ed.). 
Stanford University. https://plato.stanford.edu/archives/sum2019/ 
Parenthetical citations: (American Psychological Association, n.d.; Merriam-Webster, 
n.d.; Zalta, 2019) 
Narrative citations: American Psychological Association (n.d.), Merriam-Webster 
(n.d.), and Zalta (2019) 
• When a stable or archived version of the work is cited (as shown for the Zalta 
example), a retrieval date is not needed. 


=== PDF PAGE 340 ===
Textual Works 
~ 325 
• When an online reference work is continuously updated (see Section 9.15) and 
the versions are not archived (as with the APA Dictionary 01 Psychology and the 
Merriam-Webster.com Dictionary examples), use "n.d." as the year of publication and 
include a retrieval date (see Section 9.16). 
34. Anthology 
Gold, M. (Ed.). (1999). The complete social scientist: A Kurt Lewin reader. American 
Psychological Association. https://doi.org/ l0.l037/10319-000 
Parenthetical citation: (Gold, 1999) 
Narrative citation: Gold (1999) 
• Provide the editor(s) of the anthology in the author position of the reference. 
• The date refers to the year the anthology was published (for a work included in an 
anthology, see Example 46). 
35. Religious work 
King James Bible. (2017). King James Bible Online. https://www.kingjamesbibleonline. 
org/ (Original work published 1769) 
The Qur'an (M. A. S. Abdel Haleem, Trans.). (2004). Oxford University Press. 
The Torah: The five books of Moses (3rd ed.). (2015). The Jewish Publication Society. 
(Original work published 1962) 
Parenthetical citations: (King James Bible, 1769/2017; The Qur'an, 2004; The Torah, 
1962/2015) 
Narrative citations: King James Bible (1769/2017), The Qur'an (2004), and The 
Torah (1962/2015) 
• For more on citing religious works, see Section 9.42; to cite a specific book or 
verse, see Section 8.13; to quote a passage, see Section 8.28. 
• Additional examples of religious texts are available on the APA Style website. 
36. Ancient Greek or Roman work 
Aristotle. (1994). Poetics (S. H. Butcher, Trans.). The Internet Classics Archive. http:// 
classics.mit.edu/Aristotle/poetics.html (Original work published ca. 350 B.CE.) 
Parenthetical citation: (Aristotle, ca. 350 B.CE./1994) 
Narrative citation: Aristotle (ca. 350 B.CE./1994) 
• For ancient Greek or Roman works, include the copyright date of the version 
used in the date element and the date of the original (ancient) publication in 
parentheses at the end of the entry. When the date of original publication is 
approximate, use the abbreviation "ca." (which stand s for "circa"). 
• For more on citing classical works, see Section 9.42; to cite a canonically num-
bered part of a classical work, see Section 8.13; to quote a passage, see Section 8.28. 
37. Shakespeare 
Shakespeare, W. (1995). Much ado about nothing (B. A. Mowat & P. Werstine, Eds.). 
Washington Square Press. (Original work published 1623) 
Parenthetical citation: (Shakespeare, 1623/1995) 
Narrative citation: Shakespeare (1623/1995) 
• For more on citing Shakespeare and other works of classicalliterature, see Sec-
tion 9.42; to cite a specific act, scene, or line, see Section 8.13; to quote a passage, 
see Section 8.28. 


=== PDF PAGE 341 ===
326 ~ REFERENCE EXAMPLES 
10.3 Edited Book Chapters and Entries in Reference Works 
The edited book chapter category includes chapters of edited books and works 
in anthologies. The entries in reference works category includes dictionary, 
thesaurus, and encyclopedia entries. For ebook chapters or entries, the format, 
platform, or device (e.g., Kindle) is not included in the reference. For audiobook 
chapters or entries, include the narrator and audiobook notation only in spe-
cific cases (see Example 22). For a chapter in an authored book, create a refer-
ence for the whole book (see Examples 20-23) and provide the chapter number 
with the in-text citation only (see Section 8.13). Use the template shown next to 
construct references for edited book chapters and entries in reference works. 
Source 
Edited book 
Chapter author 
Date 
Chapter title 
information 
DOlor URL 
Author, A. A., & 
(2020). 
Title of chapter. 
In E. E. Editor (Ed.), 
https://doi.org/ 
Author, B. B. 
Tit/e of book (pp. 3-13). 
xxxx 
Name of Group. 
Publisher Name. 
https://xxxxx 
In E. E. Editor & F. F. Editor 
(Eds.), Tit/e of book (3rd 
ed., Vol. 2, pp. 212-255). 
Publisher Name. 
38. Chapter in an edited book with a 001 
Balsam, K. F., Martell, C. R., Jones, K. P., & Safren, S. A. (2019). Affirmative cognitive 
behavior therapy with sexual and gender minority people. In G. Y. Iwamasa & P. A 
Hays (Eds.), Cultura/ly responsive cognitive behavior therapy: Practice and supervi-
sion (2nd ed., pp. 287-314). American Psychological Association. https://doi.org/ 
10.1037/0000119-012 
Parenthetical citation: (Balsam et al., 2019) 
Narrative citation: Balsam et al. (2019) 
39. Chapter in an edited book without a 001, from most academic research 
databases or print version 
Weinstock, R., Leong, G. B., & Silva, J. A. (2003). Defining forensic psychiatry: Roles and 
responsibilities. In R. Rosner (Ed.), Principies and practice of forensic psychiatry (2nd 
ed., pp. 7-13). CRC Press. 
Parenthetical citation: (Weinstock et al., 2003) 
Narrative citation: Weinstock et al. (2003) 
• See Section 9.30 for more on including database information in references. 
40. Chapter in an edited ebook (e.g., Kindle book) or audiobook without a 
001, with nondatabase URL 
Tafoya, N., & Del Vecchio, A. (2005). Back to the future: An examination of the Native 
American Holocaust experience. In M. McGoldrick, J. Giordano, & N. Garcia-Preto 
(Eds.), Ethnicity and family therapy (3rd ed., pp. 55-63). Guilford Press. http://a. 
co/36xRhBT 
Parenthetical citation: (Tafoya & Del Vecchio, 2005) 
Narrative citation: Tafoya and Del Vecchio (2005) 
• See Examples 22 and 29 for further information about audiobooks. 


=== PDF PAGE 342 ===
Textual Works 
~ 327 
, 41. Chapter in an edited book in another language 
Carcavilla González, N. (2015). Terapia sensorial auditiva: Activación cerebral por medio 
de la música [Auditorysensory therapy: Brain activation through music]. In J. J. García 
Meilán (Ed.l, Guía práctica de terapias estimu/ativas en el Alzhéimer (pp. 67-86). 
Ed itoria I Síntesis. https:/ Iwww.sintesis.com/g u ias-profesiona I es-2031 9 u i a-practi ca-de-
tera pias-estimulativas-en~el-a lzheimer-libro-1943 .html 
Parenthetical citation: (Carcavilla González, 2015) 
Narrative citation: Carcavilla González (2015) 
o 
When a chapter is in a different language than your paper, inelude a translation 
of the chapter title in square brackets (see Section 9.38 for more). 
42. Chapter in an edited book, republished in translation 
Heidegger, M. (2008). On the essence of truth (J. Sallis, Trans.). In D. F. Krell (Ed.l, 
Basic writings (pp. 111-138). Harper Perennial Modern Thought. (Original work pub-
lished 1961) 
Parenthetical citation: (Heidegger, 1961/2008) 
Narrative citation: Heidegger (1961/2008) 
o 
For more on translated works, see Section 9.39. 
43. Chapter in an edited book, reprinted from a journal article 
Sacchett, c., & Humphreys, G. W. (2004). Calling a squirrel a squirrel but a canoe a wig-
wam: A category-specific deficit for artefactual objects and body parts. In D. A. Balota 
& E. J. Marsh (Eds.), Cognitive psychology: Key readings in cognition (pp. 100-108). 
Psychology Press. (Reprinted from "Calling a squirrel a squirrel but a canoe a wigwam: 
A category-specific deficit for artefactual objects and body parts," 1992, Cognitive 
Neuropsychology, 9[1], 73-86, http://doi.org/d4vb59) 
Parenthetical citation: (Sacchett & Humphreys, 1992/2004) 
Narrative citation: Sacchett and Humphreys (1992/2004) 
o 
Provide information for the reprinted version you used, then provide in paren-
theses the original artiele title (even ifthe title did not change), year, and source 
information (see Section 9.40 for more). 
o 
Place the original journal artiele issue number in square brackets rather than 
parentheses to avoid nested parentheses. 
44. Chapter in an edited book, reprinted from another book 
Bronfenbrenner, U. (2005). The social ecology of human development: A retrospective 
conclusion. In U. Bronfenbrenner (Ed.l, Making human beings human: Bioecologi-
cal perspectives on human development (pp. 27-40). SAGE Publications. (Reprinted 
from Brain and intelligence: The ecology of child deve/opment, pp. 113-123, by 
F. Richardson, Ed., 1973, National Educational Press) 
Parenthetical citation: (Bronfenbrenner, 1973/2005) 
Narrative citation: Bronfenbrenner (1973/2005) 
o 
Provide information for the reprinted version you used, then provide in paren-
theses the original book title, page range, author or editor name (ineluding "Ed." 
for an editor), year, and publisher (see Section 9.40 for more). 


=== PDF PAGE 343 ===
328 
~ REFERENCE EXAMP LES 
45. Chapter in a volume of a multivolume work 
Goldin-Meadow, S. (2015). Gesture and cognitive development. In L. S. Liben & U. 
Mueller (Eds.), Handbook of child psychology and developmental science: Vol. 2. 
Cognitive processes (7th ed., pp. 339-380). John Wiley & Sonso https://doi.org/l0. 
1002/9781118963418.childpsy209 
Parenthetical citation: (Goldin-Meadow, 2015) 
Narrative citation: Goldin-Meadow (2015) 
• lf the volume has both series editors (or editors-in-chief) and volume editors, 
only the volume editors appear in the reference. 
• The volume in this example has its own title. See Example 30 for how to include 
untitled volume information in parentheses after the book title. 
46. Work in an anthology 
Lewin, K. (1999). Group decision and social change. In M. Gold (Ed.), The complete 
social scientist: A Kurt Lewin reader (pp. 265-284). American Psychological Associa-
tion. https://doi.org/l0.l037/10319-01 O (Original work published 1948) 
Parenthetical citation: (Lewin, 1948/ 1999) 
Narrative citation: Lewin (1948/1999) 
• Works that have been published elsewhere before appearing in ari anthology are 
treated as being republished (see Section 9.41) rather than reprinted. 
47. Entry in a dictionary, thesaurus, or encyclopedia, with group author 
-
American Psychological Association. (n.d.). Positive transference. In APA dictionary of 
psychology. Retrieved August 31,2019, from https://dictionary.apa.org/positive-
transference 
Merriam-Webster. (n.d.). Self-report. In Merriam-Webster.com dictionary. Retrieved July 
12, 2019, from https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/self-report 
Parenthetical citations: (American Psychological Association, n.d.; Merriam-Webster, 
n.d.) 
Narrative citations: American Psychological Association (n.d.) and Merriam-Webster 
(n.d.) 
• When an online reference work is continuously updated (see Section 9.15) and 
the versions are not archived, use "n.d." as the year of publication and include a 
retrieval date (see Section 9.16). 
48. Entry in a dictionary, thesaurus, or encyclopedia, with individual author 
Graham, G. (2019). Behaviorism. In E. N. Zalta (Ed.), The Stanford encyc/opedia of phi-
losophy (Summer 2019 ed.). Stanford University. https://plato.stanford.edu/archives/ 
sum2019/entries/behaviorism/ 
Parenthetical citation: (Graham, 2019) 
Narrative citation: Graham (2019) 
• This example is structured similarly to the reference for a chapter in an edited 
book because the entry has an individual author, the encyclopedia has an editor, 
and the whole work has a publisher. 
• Because this version of the entry is archived, a retrieval date is not needed. 


=== PDF PAGE 344 ===
Textual Works 
C\v 329 
, 49. Wikipedia entry 
List of oldest companies. (2019, January 13). In Wikipedia. https://en.wikipedia.org/w/ 
index.php?title=LiscoColdesccümpanies&0Idid=878158136 
Parenthetieal citation: ("List of Oldest Companies," 2019) 
Narrative citation: "List of Oldest Companies" (2019) 
Cite the archived version of the page so that readers can retrieve the version you 
used. Access the archived version on Wikipedia by selecting "View history" and 
then the time and date of the version you used. If a wiki does not provide perma-
nent links to archived versions of the page, include the URL for the entry and the 
retrieval date. 
10.4 Reports and Gray Literature 
There are many kinds of reports, including government reports, technical 
reports, and research reports. These reports, like journal articles, usually cover 
original research, but they may or may not be peer reviewed. They are part of 
a body of literature sometimes referred to as gray literature. The category of 
gray literature includes press releases, codes of ethics, grants, policy briefs, 
issue briefs, and so forth. It is optional-but often helpful-to describe these 
less common types of gray literature in square brackets after the title. Reports 
themselves sometimes include a suggested reference format; this reference usu-
ally contains the information necessary to write an APA Style reference (author, 
date, title, and source), but you may need to adjust the order of the elements 
and other formatting to conform to APA Style. When the publisher is the same 
as the author, which is often the case for group authors (se e Examples 50 and 
54), omit the publisher from the source elemento Use the template shown next 
to construct references for reports and gray literature. 
Source 
I 
Publisher 
Author 
Date 
Title 
information 
DOlor URL 
Author, A. A., & 
(2020). 
Title of reporto 
Publisher Name. 
https://doi. 
Author, B. B. 
(2020, May 2). 
Title of report 
org/)()()()( 
Name of Group. 
(Report No. 123). 
https://x)()()()( 
Title of gray literature 
[Description]. 
50. Report by a government agency or other organization 
Australian Government Productivity Commission & New Zealand Productivity Commis-
sion. (2012). Strengthening trans-Tasman economie relations. https://www.pe.gov.au/ 
inquiries/completed/australia-new-zealand/reportltrans-tasman.pdf 
Canada Council for the Arts. (2013). What we heard: Summary of key findings: 2013 
Canada Couneil's Inter-Arts Offiee consultation. http://publications.gc.ca/collections/ 
collection_2017/canadacouncil/K23-65-2013-eng.pdf 
National Cancer Institute. (2018). Facing forward: Ufe after caneer treatment (NIH Pub-
lication No. 18-2424). U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, National 
Institutes of Health. https://www.cancer.gov/publications/patient-education/ life-after-
treatment. pdf 
Parenthetical citations: (Australian Government Productivity Commission & New 
Zealand Productivity Commission, 2012; Canada Council for the Arts, 2013; National 
Cancer Institute, 2018) 


=== PDF PAGE 345 ===
330 
co.y 
REFERENCE EXAMPLES 
Narrative citations: Australian Government Productivity Commission and New 
Zealand Productivity Commission (2012), Canada Council for the Arts (2013), and 
National Cancer Institute (2018) 
• See Section 9.11 for how to treat the names of group authors. 
• The names of parent agencies not present in the group author name appear in the 
source element as the publisher (see Section 9.11). 
• lf multiple agencies authored a report together, join the names with an amper-
sand, using commas to separate the names of three or more agencies. 
51. Report by individual authors at a government agency or other organization 
Fried, D., & Polyakova, A. (2018). Democratic defense against disinformation. Atlantic 
Council. https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/ images/pu bl ications/Democratic_ 
Defen se _Aga i nsCD isi nformationJI NAL. pdf 
Segaert, A., & Bauer, A. (2015). The extent and nature of veteran homelessness in 
Canada. Employment and Social Development Canada. https://www.canada.ca/ 
en/employment-social-developmentlprograms/communities/homelessness/ 
publications-bu Iletins/veterans-report. htm I 
Parenthetical citations: (Fried & Polyakova, 2018; Segaert & Bauer, 2015) 
Narrative citations: Fried and Polyakova (2018) and Segaert and Bauer (2015) 
52. Report by individual authors at a government agency, published as part of 
a series 
Blackwell, D. L., Lucas, J. w., & Clarke, T. C. (2014). Summary health statistics for U:S. 
adu/ts: National Health Interview Survey, 2012 (Vital and Health Statistics Series 10, 
Issue 260). Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. https://www.cdc.gov/nchs/ 
data/series/sr_1 0/sr1 0_260.pdf 
Parenthetical citation: (Blackwell et al., 2014) 
Narrative citation: Blackwel l et al. (2014) 
53. Report by a task force, working group, or other group 
British Cardiovascular Society Working Group. (2016). British Cardiovascular Society 
Working Group report: Out-of-hours cardiovascular ca re: Management of cardiac 
emergencies and hospital in-patients. British Cardiovascular Society. http://www.bcs. 
com/documents/BCSOOHWP _FinaLReport_05092016.pdf 
Parenthetical citation: (British Cardiovascular Society Working Group, 2016) 
Narrative citation: British Cardiovascular Society Working Group (2016) 
• Capitalize the name of the task force or working group wherever it appears in the 
reference because it is a proper noun. 
54. Annual report 
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. (2017). Agency financial report: Fiscal year 
2017. https:/ /www.sec.govlfiles/sec-2017-agency-financial-report.pdf 
Parenthetical citation: (U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, 2017) 
Narrative citation: U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (2017) 
55. Code of ethics 
American Counseling Association. (2014). 2014 ACA code of ethics. https://www. 
counseling.org/knowledge-center 
American Nurses Association. (2015). Code of ethics for nurses with interpretive 
statements. https://www.nursingworld.org/coe-view-only 


=== PDF PAGE 346 ===
Textual Works 
C\Y 
331 
American Psyehologieal Assoeiation. (2017). Ethical principIes of psycho/ogists and code 
of conduct (2002; all)ended effective June 1, 2010, and January 1, 2017). https:// 
www.apa.org/ethics/code/index.aspx 
Parenthetical citations: (American Counseling Association, 2014; American Nurses 
Association, 2015; American Psychological Association, 2017) 
Narrative citations: American Counseling Association (2014), American Nurses Asso-
ciation (2015), and American Psychological Assoeiation (2017) 
56. Grant 
Blair, C. B. (Principal Investigator). (2015-2020). Stress, self-regulation and psycho-
pathology in middle childhood (Projeet No. 5R01 HD081252-04) [Grant]. Eunice 
Kennedy Shriver Nationallnstitute of Child Health & Human Development. https:// 
projectreporter. nih .gov/projeeUnfo_deta i IS.cfm ?aid=9473071 &icde=40092311 
Parenthetical citation: (Blair, 2015-2020) 
Narrative citation: Blair (2015-2020) 
• List the principal investigator as the author with their role in parentheses, the 
project start and end year(s) as the date, the project title as the title, and the fund-
ing agency as the source. 
• The National Institutes of Health (NIH) refers to grant numbers as project num-
bers; use the appropriate terminology for the grant in your reference, and indude 
the number in parentheses after the title. 
• A grant application is not a recoverable source and should be discussed as part of 
the methodology but not induded in the reference listo 
57. Issue brief 
Lichtenstein, J. (2013). Pro file of veteran business owners: More young veterans appear 
to be starting businesses (Issue Brief No. 1). U.S. Small Business Administration, Off-
ice of Advoeaey. https://www.sba.gov/sites/defaultlfiles/lssue%20Brief%201,%20 
Veteran%20Business%200wners.pdf 
Parenthetical citation: (Liehtenstein, 2013) 
Narrative citation: Liehtenstein (2013) 
• Issue briefs are typically numbered; identify the number of the issue brief in 
parentheses after the title. 
• If a number is not provided, identify the work as an issue brief in square brackets 
following the title. 
58. Policy brief 
Harwell, M. (2018). Don't expect too much: The limited usefu/ness of common SES mea-
sures and a prescription for change [Poliey brief]. National Edueation Policy Center. 
https://nepe.colorado.edu/publication/SES 
Parenthetical citation: (Harwell, 2018) 
Narrative citation: Harwell (2018) 
59. Press release 
U.S. Food and Drug Administration. (2019, February 14). FDA authorizes first interop-
erable insulin pump intended to al/ow patients to customize treatment through 
their individual diabetes management devices [Press release]. https://www.fda.gov/ 
NewsEvents/ Newsroom/PressAnnouneements/uem631412.htm 
Parenthetical citation: (U.s. Food and Drug Administration, 2019) 
Narrative citation: U.S. Food and Drug Administration (2019) 


=== PDF PAGE 347 ===
332 ~ REFERENCE EXAMPLES 
10.5 Conference Sessions and Presentations 
Conference sessions and presentations include paper presentations, poster 
sessions, keynote addresses, and symposium contributions. Include a label in 
square brackets after the title that matches how the presentation was described 
at the conference; include all authors listed as contributing to the presentation ' 
(even if they were not physically present). The date should match the date(s) 
of the full conference to help readers find the source, even though a session or 
presentation likely occurred on only one day. Include the location of the con-
ference to help with retrieval (see Section 9.31 for the format oflocations). Con-
ference proceedings published in a journal or book follow the same format as 
for ajournal article (see Example 1), edited book (see Examples 24-26 and 30), 
or edited book chapter (see Examples 38-42 and 45). 
Use the template shown next to construct references for conference sessions 
and presentations. 
Source 
Author 
Presenter, A A, 
& Presenter, B, B 
Date 
(2020, September 
18-20), 
(2020, October 30-
November 1), 
Title 
Tit/e of contribu-
tion [Type of 
contributionJ, 
Conference 
information 
Conference 
Name, 
Location, 
DOlor URL 
https://doi,org/ 
)()()()( 
https://xxxxx 
Use the template shown next to construct references for symposium contri-
butions. 
Author 
Contributor, A A, 
& Contributor, 
B, B, 
Date 
Contribution 
title 
(2020, September Title of 
18-20), 
contribution, 
(2020, October 
30-November 1), 
60. Conference session 
Source 
Conference 
information 
In C. C. Chairperson 
(Chair), Tit/e of sym-
posium [Symposium], 
Conference Name, 
Location, 
DOlor URL 
https://doi, 
org/xxxxx 
https://xxxxx 
Fistek, A, Jester, E" & Sonnenberg, K, (2017, July 12-15), Everybody's got a litt/e music 
in them: Using music therapy to connect, engage, and motivate [Conference session], 
Autism Society National Conference, Milwaukee, WI, United States, https://asa,con-
fex,com/asa/2017 /webprogramarchives/Session9517 ,html 
Parenthetical citation: (Fistek et al" 2017) 
Narrative citation: Fistek et al. (2017) 
61. Paper presentation 
Maddox, S" Hurling, J" Stewart, E" & Edwards, A (2016, March 30-ApriI2), If mama ain't 
happy, nobody's happy: The effect of parental depression on mood dysregu/ation in 
children [Paper presentation], Southeastern Psychological Association 62nd Annual 
Meeting, New Orleans, LA, United States, 
Parenthetical citation: (Maddox et al., 2016) 
Narrative citation: Maddox et al. (2016) 


=== PDF PAGE 348 ===
--
Textual Works 
C\.\.1 
333 
62. Poster presentation 
Pearson, J. (2018, September 27-30). Fat talk and its effects on state-based body image 
in women [Poster presentation]. Australian Psychological Society Congress ~ Sydney, 
NSW, Australia. http://bit.ly/2XGSThP 
Parenthetical citation: (Pearson, 2018) 
Narrative citation: Pearson (2018) 
63. Symposium contribution 
De Boer, D., & LaFavor, T. (2018, April 26-29). The art and significance of successfully 
identifying resilient individuals: A person-focused approach. In A. M. Schmidt & A. 
Kryvanos (Chairs), Perspectives on resilience: Conceptualization, measurement, and 
enhancement [Symposium]. Western Psychological Association 98th Annual Conven-
tion, Portland, OR, United States. 
Parenthetical citation: (De Boer & LaFavor, 2018) 
Narrative citation: De Boer and LaFavor (2018) 
10.6 Dissertations and Theses 
References for doctoral dissertations and master's and undergraduate theses 
are divided by whether they are unpublished or published; unpublished works 
generally must be retrieved directly from the college or university in print 
form, whereas published works are available from a database (e.g., the Pro-
Quest Dissertations and Theses Global database), a university archive, or a 
personal website. Thus, for unpublished dissertations and theses, the univer-
sity name appears in the source element of the reference, whereas for pub-
lished dissertations and theses, the university name appears in square brackets 
after the title. 
Use the template shown next to construct references for unpublished disser-
tations and theses. 
Author 
Date 
Title 
Source 
Author, A. A. 
(2020). 
Tit/e of dissertation [Unpublished doctoral 
Name of Institution 
Awarding the Degree. 
dissertation]. 
Title of thesis [Unpublished master's thesis]. 
Use the template shown next to construct references for published dissertations 
and theses. 
Author 
Date 
Title 
Source 
Database or 
archive na me 
URL 
Author, A. A. 
(2020). 
Title of dissertation [Doctoral 
Database 
https://xxxxx 
dissertation, Name of Institution 
Name. 
Awarding the Degree]. 
Archive Name. 
Title of thesis [Master's thesis, 
Name of Institution Awarding 
the Degree]. 


=== PDF PAGE 349 ===
334 ~ REFERENCE EXAMPLES 
Author 
64. Unpublished dissertation or thesis 
Harris, L. (2014). Instructionalleadership perceptions and practices of elementary school 
leaders [Unpublished doctoral dissertation]. University of Virginia. 
Parenthetical citation: (Harris, 2014) 
Narrative citation: Harris (2014) 
65. Dissertation or thesis from a database 
Hollander, M. M. (2017). Resistance to authority: Methodological innovations and new 
lessons from the Milgram experiment (Publication No. 10289373) [Doctoral disserta-
tion, University of Wisconsin-Madison]. ProQuest Dissertations and Theses Global. 
Parenthetical citation: (Hollander, 2017) 
Narrative citation: Hollander (2017) 
66. Dissertation or thesis published online (not in a database) 
Hutcheson, V. H. (2012). Dealing with dual differences: Social coping strategies of gifted 
and lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer adolescents [Master's thesis, The 
College of William & Mary]. William & Mary Digital Archive. https://digitalarchive. 
wm.edu/bitstream/handle/1 0288/16594/HutchesonVirginia2012.pdf 
Parenthetical citation: (Hutcheson, 2012) 
Narrative citation: Hutcheson (2012) 
10.7 Reviews 
Reviews of books, films, TV shows, albums, and other entertainment are pub-
lished in a variety of outlets, including journals, magazines, newspapers, web-
sites, and blogs. The reference format for a review should be the same as the 
format for the type of content appearing within that source, with the addition of 
information about the item being reviewed in square brackets after the review 
title. Within the square brackets, write "Review of the" and then the type of 
work being reviewed (e.g., film, book, TV series episode, video game); its title 
(in sentence case, described in Section 6.17; see also Section 9.19 for whether to 
format the title in italics or quotation marks); and its author or editor, director, 
writer, and so forth, with a designation of role for all except regular authors of 
books. Use the template shown next to construct references for reviews. 
Title 
Source 
I 
Review 
Periodical 
Date 
title 
Details of reviewed work 
information 
DOlor URL 
Reviewer, A. A. 
(2020). 
Title of 
[Review of the book Book tit/e, 
Periodical Tit/e, 
https:l/doi. 
(2020, 
review 
by A. A. Author]. 
34(2), 14-15. 
org/xxxxx 
February 3). 
[Review of the Qook Book tit/e, 
Blog Tit/e. 
https:l/ 
by E. E. Editor, Ed.]. 
)()()()()()( 
[Review of the film Film tit/e, by 
D. D. Director, Dir.]. 
[Review of the TV series episode 
"Episode title," by W. W. Writer, 
Writer, & D. D. Director, Dir.]. 


=== PDF PAGE 350 ===
Textual Works 
C\.Y 
335 
67. Film review published in a journal 
Mirabito, L. A., & Heck, N. C. (2016). Bringing LGBTQ youth theater into the spotlight 
[Review of the film The year we thought about love, by E. Brodsky, Dir.]. Psychology 
of Sexual Orientation and Gender Oiversity, 3(4), 499-500. https://doi.orgho.l037/ 
sgd0000205 
Parenthetical citation: (Mirabito & Heck, 2016) 
Narrative citation: Mirabito and Heck (2016) 
68. Book review published in a newspaper 
Santos, F. (2019, January 11). Reframing refugee children's stories [Review of the book 
We are displaced: My journey and stories from refugee girls around the world, by M. 
Yousafzai]. The New York Times. https://nyti.ms/2Hlgjk3 
Parenthetical citation: (Santos, 2019) 
Narrative citation: Santos (2019) 
69. TV s~ries episode review published on a website 
Perkins, D. (2018, February 1). The good place ends its remarkable second season 
with irrational hope, unexpected gifts, and a smile [Review of the TV series episode 
"Somewhere else," by M. Schur, Writer & Dir.]. A.v. Club. https://www.avclub.com/ 
the-good-place-ends-its-remarkable-second-season-with-i-1822649316 
Parenthetical citation: (Perkins, 2018) 
Narrative citation: Perkins (2018) 
• The title is italicized because this work is a webpage on a website (see Example 
112). In the reference, the title of the show appears in reverse italics (se e Section 
6.23) and sentence case. 
10.8 Unpublished Works and Informally Published Works 
Unpublished works include work that is in progress, has been completed but 
not yet submitted for publication, and has been submitted but not yet accepted 
for publication. Informally published works include work that is available from 
a preprint archive or repository such as PsyArXiv, an electronic archive such as 
ERIe, an institutional archive, a government archive, a personal website, and 
so forth. Refer to the final published version of your sources when possible (see 
Section 8.5); remember to update your references prior to publication of your 
work or submission for a classroom assignment to ensure they contain the most 
up-to-date publication information. 
For an unpublished or informally published work, the date should be the 
year the work was completed or the year the draft was written. Do not use the 
words "in preparation," "submitted," or "submitted for publication" in the date 
element of the reference. After the title, describe the status of the work (e.g., 
unpublished, in preparation, submitted for publication) using the appropriate 
descriptor for the work (e.g., manuscript, report) in square brackets. When the 
source of the unpublished work is known (e.g., a university or university depart-
ment), include it in the source element of the reference. Include a DOI or URL 
when available for informally published works. 


=== PDF PAGE 351 ===
336 ~ 
REFERENCE EXAMPLES 
Use the template shown next to construct references for unpublished works. 
Source 
University 
Author 
Date 
Title 
information 
URL 
Author, A A, 
& Author, 
(2020). 
Title of the work [Unpublished 
manuscript]. 
Department 
https://xxxxx 
B. B. 
Title of work [Manuscript in 
preparation]. 
Title of work [Manuscript 
submitted for publication]. 
Name, University 
Name. 
Use the template shown next to construct references for informally published 
works. 
Author 
Date 
Author, A A, 
(2020). 
& Author B. B. 
Title 
Title of the work. 
Title of the work 
(Publication No. 123). 
70. Unpublished manuscript 
Source 
Database or archive 
information 
Name of Database. 
Name of Archive. 
DOlor URL 
https://doi.org/ 
xxxxx 
https://xxxxxx 
Yoo, J., Miyamoto, Y, Rigotti, A, & Ryff, C. (2016). Linking positive affect to blood lipids: 
A cultural perspective [Unpublished manuscript]. Department of Psychology, Univer-
sity of Wisconsin-Madison. 
Parenthetical citation: (Yoo et al., 2016) 
Narrative citation: Yoo et al. (2016) 
• An unpublished manuscript is only in the authors' possession. Treat a manuscript 
available online as informally published (see Examples 73- 74). 
• Indude the department and institution where the work was produced, if possible. 
71. Manuscript in preparation 
O'Shea, M. (2018). Understanding proactive behavior in the workp/ace as a function of 
gender [Manuscript in preparation]. Department of Management, University of Kansas. 
Parenthetical citation: (O'Shea, 2018) 
Narrative citation: O'Shea (2018) 
• A manuscript in preparation is only in the authors' possession. Treat a manu-
script available online as informally published (see Examples 73-74). 
• Indude the department and institution where the work was produced, if possible. 
72. Manuscript submitted for publication 
Lippincott, T., & Poindexter, E. K. (2019). Emotion recognition as a function of facial cues: 
Implications for practice [Manuscript submitted for publication]. Department of Psy-
chology, University of Washington. 
Parenthetical citation: (Lippincott & Poindexter, 2019) 
Narrative citation: Lippincott and Poindexter (2019) 


=== PDF PAGE 352 ===
Data Sets, Softwa re, and Tests 
• Do not list the name of the journal to which the work was submitted. Once the 
manuscript has been accepted for publication, cite it as an in-press artiele (see 
Example 8), 
• A manuscript submitted for publication is not available to the publico If the man-
uscript is available online, treat it as informally published (see Examples 73-74). 
73. Informally published work, from a preprint archive or an institutional 
repository 
Leuker, c., Samartzidis, L., Hertwig, R., & Pleskac, T. J. (2018). When money ta/ks: Judg-
ing risk and coercion in high-paying c1inica/ tria/s. PsyArXiv. https://doi .org/10.1760S/ 
OSF.IO/9P7CB 
Stults-Kolehmainen, M. A., & Sinha, R. (2015). The effects of stress on physica/ activity and 
exercise. PubMed Central. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3894304 
Parenthetica/ citations: (Leuker et al., 2018; Stults-Kolehmainen & Sinha, 2015) 
Narrative citations: Leuker et al. (2018) and Stults-Kolehmainen and Sinha (2015) 
• The informal1y published work may not be peer reviewed (as with Leuker et al.'s 
preprint artiele fram PsyArXiv), or it may be the author's final, peer-reviewed 
manuscript as accepted for publication (as with Stults-Kolehmainen & Sinha's 
manuscript fram PubMed Central). See Section 8.5 for more on use of an archival 
version. 
74. Informally published work, from ERIC database 
Ho, H.-K. (2014). Teacher preparation for ear/y chi/dhood specia/ education in Taiwan 
(ED545393). ERIC. https:/lfiles.eric.ed.govlfulltext/ED545393.pdf 
Parenthet;ca/ citat;on: (Ho, 2014) 
Narrat;ve citat;on: Ho (2014) 
• ERIC assigns document numbers to the works in the database. Inelude this num-
ber in parentheses after the title of the work. 
Data Sets, Software, and Tests 
10.9 Data Sets 
Citing data supports their discovery and reuse, leading to better science through 
the validation of results, It also recognizes data as an essential part of the scien-
tific record and acknowledges data creators for their contributions. We recom-
mend that authors include an in-text citation and a reference list entry for a 
data set when they have either (a) conducted secondary analyses of publicly 
archived data or (b) archived their own data being presented for the first time in 
the current work (see also Section 1.14 on data retention and sharing), 
The date for published data is the year of publication and for unpublished 
data is the year(s) of coHection. When a version number exists, include it in 
parentheses after the title. The bracketed description is flexible (e.g., data set, 
data set and code book). In the source element of the reference, for published 
data, provide the name of the organization that has published, archived, pro-
duced, or distributed the data set; for unpublished data, provide the source (e,g" 
a university), ifknown, Include a retrieval date only ifthe data set is designed to 
change over time (e.g., if data are still undergoing coHection; see Section 9.16 for 
~ 337 


=== PDF PAGE 353 ===
338 ~ REFERENCE EXAMPLES 
more on retrieval dates). Use the template shown next to construct references 
for data sets. 
Source 
Author 
Date 
Title 
Publisher 
DOlor URL 
Author, A A, & 
(2020). 
Title of data set (Version 1 .2) 
Publisher 
https://doi.org/ 
Author, B. B. 
(2015-
[Data set]. 
Name. 
xxxxx 
Name of Group. 
2019). 
Title of data set 
Source of 
https://xxxxxx 
[Unpublished raw data]. 
Unpublished 
Retrieved October 
[Description of untitled data 
Data. 
21,2020, from 
set] [Unpublished raw data]. 
https://xxxxx 
75. Data set 
D'Souza, A, & Wiseheart, M. (2018). Cognitive effects of music and dance training 
in children (ICPSR 37080; Version V1) [Data set]. ICPSR. https://doi.org/1O.3886/ 
ICPSR37080.v1 
National Center for Education Statistics. (2016). Fast Response Survey System (FRSS): 
Teachers' use of educational technology in U.S. public schools, 2009 (ICPSR 35531; 
Version V3) [Data set and code book]. National Archive of Data on Arts and Culture. 
https://doi.org/10.3886/ ICPSR35531 .v3 
Pew Research Center. (2018). American trends panel Wave 26 [Data set]. https://www. 
pewsocialtrends.org/datasetlamerican-trends-panel-wave-26/ 
Parenthetical citations: (D'Souza & Wiseheart, 2018; National Center for Education 
Statistics, 2016; Pew Research Center, 2018) 
Narrative citations: D'Souza and Wiseheart (2018), National Center for Education 
Statistics (2016). and Pew Research Center (2018) 
76. Unpublished raw data 
Baer, R. A (2015). [Unpublished raw data on the correlations between the Five Facet 
Mindfulness Questionnaire and the Kentucky Inventory of Mindfulness Skills]. Univer-
sity of Kentucky. 
Oregon Youth Authority. (2011). Recidivism outcomes [Unpublished raw data]. 
Parenthetical citations: (Baer, 2015; Oregon Youth Authority, 2011) 
Narrative citations: Baer (2015) and Oregon Youth Authority (2011) 
• For an untitled data set, provide a description in square brackets of the publica-
tion status and focus of the data. 
• When the source of unpublished raw data is known (e.g., a university or a univer-
sity department), include it at the end of the reference. 
10.10 Computer Software, Mobile Apps, Apparatuses, and Equipment 
Common software and mobile apps mentioned in text, but not paraphrased or 
quoted, do not need citations, nor do programming languages. "Common" is 
relative to your field and audience-examples of software or apps that do not 
require citations indude Microsoft Office (e.g., Word, Excel, PowerPoint), social 
media apps (e.g., Facebook, Instagram, Twitter), survey software (e.g., Qualtrics, 
Survey Monkey), Adobe products (e.g., Adobe Reader, Photoshop, Adobe Acro-
bat), Java, and statistical programs (e.g., R, SPSS, SAS). If you used common 
software or mobile apps during your research, simply give the proper name of 
the software or app along the with version number in the text, if relevant. 
I 
I 


=== PDF PAGE 354 ===
Data Sets, Software, and Tests 
Data were analyzed with IBM SPSS Statistics (Version 25). 
Clients had installedthe Facebook app on their mobile devices. 
However, indude referertce list entries and in-text citations if you have para-
phrased or quoted from any software or app. Also provide reference list entries 
and in-text citations when mentioning software, apps, and apparatuses or equip-
ment of limited distribution- meaning your audience is unlikely to be familiar 
with them. The date of a computer software or mobile app reference is the year 
of publication of the version used. The titles of software and apps should be ital-
icized in the reference list entry but not italicized in the texto To cite content on 
a social media app, see Section 10.15. Use the template shown next to construct 
references for software and mobile apps oflimited distribution and for appara-
tuses or equipment. 
Source 
• 
Author 
Date 
Title 
Publisher 
URL 
Author, A. A., & 
(2020). 
Title of work (Version 1 .2) 
Publisher. 
https://xxxxxx 
Author, B. B. 
[Computer software]. 
App Store. 
Name of Group. 
Title of work (Version 4.6) 
Google Play Store. 
[Mobile app]. 
Name of apparatus 
(Model number) 
[Apparatus]. 
Name of equipment 
(Model number) 
[Equipment]. 
Use the template shown next to construct references for entries in mobile 
app reference works. The format for an entry in a mobile app reference work 
is similar to that for a chapter in an edited book. The most common case, in 
which the same author is responsible for the whole work and all entries, is 
shown here. 
Source 
I 
Author 
Date 
Entry title 
Mobile app information 
URL 
I 
Author, A. A., & 
(2020). 
Title of entry. 
In Title of work (Version 1.2) 
https://xxxxxx 
Author, B. B. 
[Mobile app]. Publisher Name 
Name of Group. 
or App Store. 
77. Software 
Borenstein, M., Hedges, L., Higgins, J., & Rothstein, H. (2014). Comprehensive meta-
analysis (Version 3.3.070) [Computer software]. Biostat. https://www.meta-analysis. 
coml 
Parenthetical citation: (Borenstein et al., 2014) 
Narrative citation: Borenstein et al. (2014) 
78. Apparatus or equipment 
SR Research . (2016). Eye/ink 1000 plus [Apparatus and software]. https:llwww.sr-research. 
com/eyelink1000plus.html 
Tactile Labs. (2015). Latero tactile display [Apparatus]. http://tactilelabs.com/products/ 
ha pti es/l ate ro-tacti I e-d isp lay I 
C\.Y 
339 


=== PDF PAGE 355 ===
340 
~ REFERENCE EXAMPLES 
Parenthetícal citatíons: (SR Research, 2016; Tactile Labs, 2015) 
Narratíve citatíons: SR Research (2016) and Tactile Labs (2015) 
• lf the apparatus or equipment comes with software, list both in the description. 
• lf the apparatus or equipment has a model number that is not induded in the 
title, indude the number after the title in parentheses. 
• Because the author and publisher are the same, omit the publisher. 
79. Mobile app 
Epocrates. (2019). Epocrates medícal references (Version 18.12) [Mobile app]. App Store. 
https://itunes.apple .com/us/app/ epocrates/id281935788?mt=8 
Parenthetícal citatíon: (Epocrates, 2019) 
Narratíve citatíon: Epocrates (2019) 
80. Entry in a mobile app reference work 
Epocrates. (2019). Interaction check: Aspirin + sertraline. In Epocrates medícal references 
(Version 18.12) [Mobile app]. Google Play Store. https://play.google.com/store/apps/ 
details?id=com.epocrates&hl=en_US 
Parenthetícal citatíon: (Epocrates, 2019) 
Narratíve citatíon: Epocrates (2019) 
10.11 Tests, Scales, and Inventories 
To cite a test, scale, or inventory, provide a citation for its supporting literature 
(e.g., its manual, which may be an authored or an edited book, or the journal 
article in which it was published; see Example 81). lf supporting literature is not 
available, it is also possible to cite the test itself (see Example 82) and/or a data-
base record for a test (see Example 83). The title of a test, a scale, or an inventory 
should be capitalized using title case whenever it appears in a papero Although 
the test title may be italicized in a reference (e.g., in the name of a manual or 
when the test itself is cited), in the text, the title of a test should appear in title 
case in standard (nonitalic) type. A test database name (e.g., PsycTESTS, ETS 
TestLink) is included only for test database records (see Example 83). Use the 
template shown next to construct references for tests, scales, inventories, or test 
database records. 
Source 
Author 
Date 
Title 
Database 
URL 
Author, A. A., & 
(2020). 
Title of the Test. 
Test Database 
https://xxxxxx 
Author, B. B. 
Title of the Test Database 
Name. 
Record [Database record]. 
81. Manual for a test, scale, or inventory 
Tellegen, A., & Ben-Porath, Y. S. (2011). Minnesota Mu/tiphasic Personalíty Inventory-2 
Restructured Form (MMPI-2-RF): Technical manual. Pearson. 
Parenthetícal citatíon: (Tellegen & Ben-Porath, 2011) 
Narratíve citatíon: Tellegen and Ben-Porath (2011) 
82. Test, scale, or inventory itself 
Project Implicit. (n.d.). Gender-Science IAT. https://implicit.harvard.edu/implicit/ 
takeatest.html 
-
. 


=== PDF PAGE 356 ===
Audiovisual Media 
~ 341 
Parenthetical citatian: (Project Implicit, n.d.) 
Narrative citation: Project Implicit (n.d.) 
• Cite the test, scale, or inventory its.elf only if a manual or other supporting litera-
ture is not available to cite; if a manual is available for a test, cite the manual, not 
the test (see Example 81). 
83. Database record for a test 
Alonso-Tapia, J., Nieto, c., Merino-Tejedor, E., Huertas, J. A., & Ruiz, M. (2018). Situated 
Goa/s Ouestionnaire for University Students (SGO-U, CMS-U) [Database record]. 
PsycTESTS. https://doi.org/l 0.1 037/t6626 7 -000 
Cardoza, D., Morris, J. K., Myers, H. F., & Rodriguez, N. (2000). Acculturative Stress Inven-
tory (AS/) (TC022704) [Database record]. ETS TestLink. 
Parenthetical citations: (Alonso-Tapia et al., 2018; Cardoza et al., 2000) 
Narrative citations: Alonso-Tapia et al. (2018) and Cardoza et al. (2000) 
• Test database records (e.g., records from PsycTESTS, the ETS TestLink collec-
tion, or the CINAHL database) typically provide unique descriptive and admin-
istrative information about tests; cite the database record if you use this unique 
information. Otherwise, cite the test's supporting literature, if available. 
Audiovisual Media 
Audiovisual media may have both visual and audio components (e.g., film s , 
TV shows, YouTube videos; see Section 10.12), audio components only (e.g., 
music, speech recordings; see Section 10.13), or visual components only (e.g., 
artwork, PowerPoint slides, photographs; see Section 10.14). The reference 
examples that follow are divided into those categories as an aid to readers of 
this manual; however, they follow the same formats, so the guidance is pre-
sented together here. 
The formats for audiovisual references follow a pattern based on whether 
the work stand s alone (e.g., films, whole TV series, podcasts, webinars, music 
albums, artwork, YouTube videos) or is part of a greater whole (e.g., TV series 
episodes, podcast episodes, songs from a music album). 
The author of an audiovisual work is determined by media type, as shown next. 
Media type 
Inelude as the author 
I 
Film 
Director 
TV series 
Executive producer(s) 
TV series episode 
Writer and director of episode 
Podcast 
Host or executive producer 
Podcast episode 
Host of episode 
Webinar 
Instructor 
Classical music album or song 
Composer 
Modem music album or song 
Recording artist 
Artwork 
Artist 
Online streaming video 
Person or group who uploaded the video 
Photograph 
Photographer 


=== PDF PAGE 357 ===
342 
C\v 
REFERENCE EXAMPLES 
Describe the audiovisual work in square brackets-for example, "[Film]," "[TV 
series]," "[Audio podcast episode]," "[Song]," "[Painting]," and so forth in the 
title element of the reference. In the source element of the reference, provide 
the name of the production company for films, TV series, or podcasfs; the label 
for music albums; the museum name and location for artwork; or the name of 
the streaming video site that hosts a streaming video. To cite a direct quotation 
from an audiovisual work (e.g., from a film), see Section 8.28; for interviews, see 
Section 8.7. Ifyou want to reproduce an audiovisual work (e.g., a photograph or 
clip art) rather thanjust cite it, you may need to seek permission from the copy-
right owner and/or provide a copyright attribution per the terms of the image 
license (see Section 12.15 for more). 
Use the template shown next to construct references for audiovisual media 
that stand alone. 
Source 
I 
Author 
Date 
Title 
Publisher 
URL 
I 
Director, D. D. 
(2020). 
Tit/e of work 
Production 
https://xxxxxx 
(Director). 
(1989-present). 
[Description]. 
Company. 
Producer, P. P. 
(2013-2019). 
Label. 
(Executive Producer). 
(2019, July 21). 
Museum Name, 
Host, H. H. (Host). 
Museum Location. 
Artist, A. A. 
Department Name, 
Uploader, U. U. 
University Name. 
Use the template shown next to construct references for audiovisual media that 
are part of a greater whole. 
Source 
I 
Author 
Date 
Title 
Publisher 
URL 
I 
Writer, W. W. 
(2020). 
Title of episode 
In P. P. Producer 
https://xxxxxx 
(Writer), & 
(2020, March 
(Season No., 
(Executive Producer), 
Director, D. D. 
26). 
Episode No.) 
Tit/e of TV series. 
(Director). 
[Description]. 
Production 
Host, H. H. (Host). 
Title of song 
Company. 
Producer, P. P. 
[Description]. 
In Title of podcast. 
(Producer). 
Production Company. 
Composer, C. C. 
On Title of album. 
Label. 
Artist, A. A. 
10.12 Audiovisual Works 
84. Film or video 
Forman, M. (Director). (1975). One flew over the cuckoos nest [Film]. United Artists. 
Fosha, D. (Guest Expert), & Levenson, H. (Host). (2017). Accelerated experiential dynamic 
psychotherapy (AEDP) supervision [Film; educational DVD]. American Psychological 
Association. https://www.apa.org/pubs/videos/43 1 0958.aspx 
Jackson, P. (Director). (2001). The lord of the rings: The fellowship of the ring [Film; four-
disc special extended ed. on DVD]. WingNut Films; The Saul Zaentz Company. 
Parenthetical citations: (Forman, 1975; Fosha & Levenson, 2017; Jackson, 2001) 
Narrative citations: Forman (1975), Fosha and Levenson (2017), and Jackson (2001) 
-


=== PDF PAGE 358 ===
Audiovisual Media 
"'" 343 
• The director should be credited as the author of a film. However, if the director is 
unknown (as withtheFosha & Levenson example), someone in a similarrole can 
be credited instead toaid readers in retrieving the work; the description of role 
in this case matches what is on the work and is flexible. 
• lt is not necessary to specify how you watched a film (e.g., in a theater, on DVD, 
streaming online). However, the format or other descriptive information may 
be included-within the square brackets, following the word "Film" and a semi-
colon-when you need to specify the version used (e.g., when the film's DVD 
release includes a commentary or special feature that you used, or when the film 
is a limited-release educational video or DVD). Adjust this wording as needed. 
85. Film or video in another language 
Malle, L. (Director). (1987). Au revoir les enfants [Goodbye children] [Film]. Nouvelles 
Éditions de Films. 
Parenthetical citatíon: (Malle, 1987) 
Narrative citation: Malle (1987) 
• When a film title is in a different language than your paper, include a translation 
of the title in square brackets (see Section 9.38). 
86. TV series 
Simon, D., Colesberry, R. F., & Kostroff Noble, N. (Executive Producers). (2002-2008). The 
wire [TV series]. Blown Deadline Productions; HBO. 
Parenthetícal citation: (Simon et al., 2002-2008) 
Narrative citation: Simon et al. (2002-2008) 
• When the series spans multiple years, separate the years with an en dash. lf the 
series is still airing, replace the second year with the word "present": (2015-present). 
87. TV series episode or webisode 
Barris, K. (Writer & Director). (2017, January 11). Lemons (Season 3, Episode 12) [TV 
series episode]. In K. Barris, J. Groff, A. Anderson, E. B. Dobbins, L. Fishburne, & H. 
Sugland (Executive Producers), Black-ish. Wilmore Films; Artists First; Cinema Gypsy 
Productions; ABC Studios. 
Oakley, B. (Writer), Weinstein, J. (Writer), & Lynch, J. (Director). (1995, May 21). Who shot 
Mr. Burns? (Part one) (Season 6, Episode 25) [TV series episode]. In D. Mirkin, J. L. 
Brooks, M. Groening, & S. Simon (Executive Producers), The Simpsons. Gracie Films; 
Twentieth Century Fox Film Corporation. 
Parenthetical citations: (Barris, 2017; Oakley et al., 1995) 
Narrative citations: Barris (2017) and Oakley et al. (1995) 
• lnclude writer(s) and the director for the episode. lnclude the contributor roles 
in parentheses after each contributor's name. "Writer" and "Director" are shown 
here, but "Executive Director" or other role descriptions might also be used. 
• Provide the season number and episode number after the title in parentheses. 
88. TED Talk 
Giertz, S. (2018, April). Why you should make useless things [Video]. TED Conferences. 
https://www.ted.com/talks/simone_giertz_why_you_should_make_useless_things 
TED. (2012, March 16). Brené Brown: Listening to shame [Video]. YouTube. https://www. 
youtube.com/watch?v=psN1 DORYYVO 
Parenthetícal citatíons: (Giertz, 2018; TED, 2012) 
Narrative citatíons: Giertz (2018) and TED (2012) 


=== PDF PAGE 359 ===
344 ~ REFERENCE EXAMPLES 
• When the TED Talk comes from TED's website (as with the Giertz example), use 
the name of the speaker as the author. When the TED Talk is on YouTube, list the 
owner ofthe YouTube account (here, TED)as the author to aid in retrieval. 
• When the speaker is not listed as the author, integrate their name into the narra-
tive if desired: "Brown discussed shame as a human experience (TED, 2012)." 
• To cite a quotation from a TED Talk, see Section 8.28. 
89. Webinar, recorded 
Goldberg, J. F. (2018). Evaluating adverse drug effects [Webinar]. American Psychiatric 
Association. https://education.psychiatry.org/Users/ProductDetails.aspx?ActivityID= 
6172 
Parenthetical citation: (Goldberg, 2018) 
Narrative citation: Goldberg (2018) 
• Use this format only for recorded, retrievable webinars. 
• Cite unrecorded webinars as personal communications (see Section 8.9). 
90. YouTube video or other streaming video 
Cutts, 5. (2017, November 24). Happiness [Video]. Vimeo. https://vimeo.com/244405542 
Fogarty, M. [Grammar Girl]. (2016, 5eptember 30). How to diagram a sentence (abso/ute 
basics) [Video]. YouTube. https://youtu.be/deiEY5Yq1ql 
University of Oxford. (2018, December 6). How do geckos walk on water? [Video]. 
You T ube. https:/ /www.youtube.com/watch ?v=qm 1 xGfOZJc8 
Parenthetical citations: (Cutts, 2017; Fogarty, 2016; University of Oxford, 2018) 
Narrative citations: Cutts (2017), Fogarty (2016), and University of Oxford (2018) 
• The person or group who uploaded the video is credited as the author for retriev-
ability, even if they did not create the work. Note the contributions of others who 
appear in the video in the text narrative if desired (see Example 88). 
• See Section 9.8 for how to present usernames. To cite a quotation from a YouTube 
or other streaming video, see Section 8.28. 
10.13 Audio Works 
See the introduction to the Audiovisual Media section for templates for audio 
works. 
91. Music album 
Bach, J. 5. (2010). The Brandenburg concertos: Concertos BWV 1043 & 1060 [Album 
recorded by Academy of 5t Martin in the Fields]. Decca. (Original work published 1721) 
Bowie, D. (2016). Blackstar [Album]. Columbia. 
Parenthetical citations: (Bach, 1721/2010; Bowie, 2016) 
Narrative citations: Bach (1721/2010) and Bowie (2016) 
• For a recording of a classical work, provide the composer as the author, and note 
(in square brackets) following the title the individual or group who recorded the 
version you used. Provide the publication date for the version you used, and then 
provide the year of original composition in parentheses at the end of the reference. 
• For all other recordings, provide the name ofthe recording artist or group as the 
author. 
• It is not usually necessaryto specify howyou listened to an album (e.g., streaming 
on Spotify, iTunes, Amazon Music, Pandora, Tidal; on CD). However, the format 


=== PDF PAGE 360 ===
Audiovisual Media 
c..v 
345 
or other descriptive information may be included-in square brackets, following 
the word "Album" and a semicolon-when you need to specify the version you 
used (e.g., when a version of an album includes special tracks or features you 
accessed). Adjust this wordingas needed. 
• Include a URL in the reference if that location is the only means of retrieval (e.g., 
for artists who provide music in only one location, such as SoundCloud or their 
website). 
92. Single song or track 
Beethoven, L. van. (2012). Symphony No. 3 in E-flat major [Song recorded by Staats-
ka pelle Dresden]. On Beethoven: Complete symphonies. Brilliant Classics. (Original 
work published 1804) 
Beyoncé. (2016). Formation [Song]. On Lemonade. Parkwood; Columbia. 
Childish Gambino. (2018). This is America [Song]. mcDJ; RCA. 
Lamar, K. (2017). Humble [Song]. On Damn. Aftermath Entertainment; Interscope 
Records; Top Dawg Entertainment. 
Parenthetical citations: (Beethoven, 1804/2012; Beyoncé, 2016; Childish Gambino, 
2018; Lamar, 2017) 
Narrative citations: Beethoven (1804/2012), Beyoncé (2016), Childish Gambino 
(2018), and Lamar (2017) 
• Ifthe song has no associated album (as in the Childish Gambino example), omit 
that part of the reference. 
• Include a URL in the reference if that location is the only means of retrieval (e.g., 
for artists who provide music in only one location, such as SoundCloud or on 
their website). 
93. Podcast 
Vedantam, S. (Host). (2015-present). Hidden brain [Audio podcast]. NPR. https://www. 
npr.org/series/423302056/hidden-brain 
Parenthetical citation: (Vedantam, 2015-present) 
Narrative citation: Vedantam (2015-present) 
• List the host of the podcast as the author. Alternatively, provide the executive 
producers, ifknown. In either case, include their role in parentheses. 
• Specify the type of podcast (audio or video) in square brackets. 
• Ifthe URL ofthe podcast is unknown (e.g., if accessed via an app), omit the URL. 
94. Podcast episode 
Glass, 1. (Host). (2011, August 12). Amusement park (No. 443) [Audio podcast episode]. 
In This American life. WBEZ Chicago. https://www.thisamericanlife.org/radio-archives/ 
episode/443/amusement-park 
Parenthetical citation: (Glass, 2011) 
Narrative citation: Glass (2011) 
• List the host of the podcast as the author and include their role in parentheses. 
• Provide the episode number after the title in parentheses. If the podcast do es not 
number episodes, omit the number from the reference. 
• Specify the type of podcast (audio or video) in square brackets. 
• If the URL of the podcast is unknown (e.g., if accessed via an app), omit the URL. 


=== PDF PAGE 361 ===
346 
C\.\.I 
REFERENCE EXAMPLES 
95. Radio interview recording in a digital archive 
de Beauvoir, S. (1960, May 4). Simone de Beauvoir discusses the art of writing [Interview]. 
Studs Terkel Radio Archive; The Chicago History Museum. https://studsterkel.wfmt. 
com/programs/simone-de-beauvoir-discusses-art-writing 
. 
Parenthetical citation: (de Beauvoir, 1960) 
Narrative citation: de Beauvoir (1960) 
• For interviews that are housed in digital or physical archives (whether in audio or 
audiovisual form), credit the interviewee as the author. For more on interviews, 
see Section 8.7. 
96. Speech audio recording 
King, M. L., Jr. (1963, August 28). I have a dream [Speech audio recording]. American 
Rhetoric. https:/ /www.americanrhetoric.com/speeches/m lkihaveadream.htm 
Parenthetical citation: (King, 1963) 
Narrative citation: King (1963) 
10.14 Visual Works 
See the introduction to the Audiovisual Media section for templates for visual 
works. 
97. Artwork in a museum or on a museum website 
Delacroix, E. (1826-1827). Faust attempts to seduce Marguerite [Lithograph]. The Louvre, 
Paris, France. 
Wood, G. (1930). American gothic [Painting]. Art Institute of Chicago, Chicago, IL, United 
States. https://www.artic.edu/aic/collections/artworkl6565 
Parenthetical citations: (Delacroix, 1826-1827; Wood, 1930) 
Narrative citations: Delacroix (1826-1827) and Wood (1930) 
• Use this format to cite al! types of museum artwork, including paintings, sculp-
tures, photographs, prints, drawings, and instal!ations; always include a descrip-
tion of the medium or format in square brackets after the title. 
• For untitled art, include a description in square brackets in place of a title. 
98. Clip art or stock image 
GDJ. (2018). Neural network deep leaming prismatic [Clip art]. Openclipart. https:// 
openclipart.org/detail/309343/neural-network-deep-learning-prismatic 
Parenthetical citation: (GDJ, 2018) 
Narrative citation: GDJ (2018) 
• Use this format to cite (but not reproduce) most clip art or stock images. To 
reproduce clip art or stock images, permission and/or a copyright attribution 
may be necessary in addition to the reference. No citation, permission, or copy-
right attribution is necessary for clip art from programs like Microsoft Word or 
PowerPoint (see Section 12.15). 
99. Infographic 
Rossman, J., & Palmer, R. (2015). Sorting through our space junk [Infographic]. World 
Science Festival. https://www.worldsciencefestival.com/2015/11/space-junk-
infographic/ 


=== PDF PAGE 362 ===
Parenthetical citation: (Rossman & Palme r, 2015) 
Narrative citation:. Rossman and Palmer (2015) 
Audiovisual Media 
~ 347 
• Use this format to cite (but not reproduce) an infographic. To reproduce an info-
graphic, permission and/or a copyright attribution may be necessary in 'addition 
to the reference (see Section 12.15). 
100. Map 
Cable, D. (2013). The racial dot map [Map]. University ofVirginia, Weldon Cooper Cen-
ter for Public Service. https://demographics.coopercenter.org/Racial-Dot-Map 
Google. (n.d.). [Google Maps directions for driving from La Paz, Bolivia, to Lima, Peru]. 
Retrieved February 16, 2020, from https://goo.gIIYYE3GR 
Parenthetical citations: (Cable, 2013; Google, n.d.) 
Narrative citations: Cable (2013) and Google (n.d.) 
• Because dynamically created maps (e.g., Google Maps) do not have a title, 
describe the map in square brackets, and indude a retrieval date. 
101. Photograph 
McCurry, S. (1985). Afghan girl [Photograph]. National Geographic. https://www. 
nationalgeographic.com/magazine/national-geographic-magazine-50-years-of-
covers/#/ngm-1985-jun-714.jpg 
Rinaldi, J. (2016). [Photograph series of a boy who finds his footing after abuse by those 
he trusted]. The Pulitzer Prizes. https://www.pulitzer.org/winners/jessica-rinaldi 
Parenthetical citations: (McCurry, 1985; Rinaldi, 2016) 
Narrative citations: McCurry (1985) and Rinaldi (2016) 
• Use this format to cite (but not reproduce) photographs or other artwork not 
connected to a museum (for museum artwork, see Example 97). To reproduce 
a photograph, permission and/or a copyright attribution may be necessary in 
addition to the reference (see Section 12.15). 
• The source is the name of the site from which the photograph was retrieved. 
• For an untitled photograph, indude a description in square brackets in place of 
a title. 
102. PowerPoint slides or lecture notes 
Canan, E., & Vasilev, J. (2019, May 22). [Lecture notes on resource allocation]. Depart-
ment of Management Control and Information Systems, University of Chile. https:// 
uchilefau.academia.edu/ElseZCanan 
Housand, B. (2016). Game on! Integrating games and simu/ations in the c1assroom 
[PowerPoint slides]. SlideShare. https://www.slideshare.netlbrianhousand/game-
on-iagc-2016/ 
Mack, R., & Spake, G. (2018). Citing open source images and formatting references 
for presentations [PowerPoint slides]. Canvas@FNU. https:/lfnu.onelogin.com/login 
Parenthetical citations: (Canan & Vasilev, 2019; Housand, 2016; Mack & Spake, 
2018) 
Narrative citations: Canan and Vasilev (2019), Housand (2016), and Mack and 
Spake (2018) 
• Ifthe slides come from a dassroom website, learning management system (e.g., 
Canvas, Blackboard), or company intranet and you are writing for an audience 
with access to that resource, provide the name of the site and its URL (use the 
login page URL for sites requiring login; see Section 8.8). 
I 


=== PDF PAGE 363 ===
348 
~ REFERENCE EXAMPLES 
I 
Online Media 
10.15 Social Media 
Cite only original content from social media sites such as Twitter, Facebook, 
Reddit, Instagram, Tumblr, LinkedIn, and so forth. That is, if you used social , 
media to discover content (e.g., you found a link to a blog post on Pinterest or 
Twitter) and you want to cite the content, cite it directly-it is not necessary to 
mention that you found it through a link on social media. 
Social media posts may contain text only, text with audiovisuals (e.g., photos, 
videos), or audiovisuals alone. Include the text of a social media post up to the 
first 20 words. Note the presence of audiovisuals (in square brackets) after the 
text ofthe post (see Example lOS). 
Social media posts might also contain nonstandard spelling and capitaliza-
tion, hashtags, links, and emojis. Do not alter the spelling and capitalization in 
a social media reference. Retain hashtags and links. Replicate emojis, if possi-
ble. If you are not able to create the emoji, provide the emoji's name in square 
brackets, for example, "[face with tears ofjoy emoji]" for 
. The fulllist of emoji 
names can be found on the Unicode Consortium's website (http://unicode.org/ 
emoji/charts/index.html). When calculating the number of words in your paper, 
count an emoji as one word. 
Use the template shown next to construct references to social media contento 
Source 
I 
Social media 
I 
Author 
Date 
Title 
site na me 
URL 
Twitter and Instagram: 
(n.d,), 
Content of the post up 
Site Name. 
https://xxxxxx 
Author, A A [@username], 
(2019, August 
to the first 20 words, 
Retrieved August 
Name of Group [@username], 
8), 
Content of the post up 
27,2020, from 
Facebook and others: 
to the first 20 words 
https://xxxxxx 
[Description of 
Author, A A 
Name of Group, 
audiovisuals], 
Name of Group [UsernameJ, 
[Description of 
audiovisuals], 
Username, 
103. Tweet 
APA Education [@APAEducation], (2018, June 29). College students are forming 
menta/-health c/ubs-and they're making a difference @washingtonpost [Thumb-
nail with link attached] [Tweet]. Twitter. https://twitter.com/apaeducation/status/ 
1012810490530140161 
Badlands National Park [@BadlandsNPS], (2018, February 26), Biologists have identified 
more than 400 different plant species growing in @BadlandsNPS #DYK #biodiver-
sity [Tweet], Twitter, https://twitter.com/ BadlandsNPS/status/968196500412133379 
White, B, [@BettyMWhite]. (2018, June 21). I treasure every minute we spent together 
#koko [Image attached] [Tweet], Twitter, https://twitter,com/BettyMWhite/status/ 
1009951892846227456 
Parenthetical citations: (APA Education, 2018; Badlands National Park, 2018; White, 
2018) 
Narrative citations: APA Education (2018), Badlands National Park (2018), and White 
(2018) 


=== PDF PAGE 364 ===
Online Media 
~ 349 
• If the tweet ineludes images (ineluding animated gifs), videos, thumbnaillinks to 
outside sources, links to other tweets (as in a retweet with comment), or a poll, 
indicate that in square brackets. For tweet replies, do not inelude the "replying to" 
information; if that is important to note, do so within the in-text citation. 
• Replicate emojis if possible (see the introduction to Section 10.15 for more). 
104. Twitter profile 
APA Style [@APA_Style]. (n.d.). Tweets [Twitter profile]. Twitter. Retrieved November 1, 
2019, from https://twitter.com/APA_Style 
Parenthetical citation: (APA Style, n.d.) 
Narrative citation: APA Style (n.d.) 
• Provide a retrieval date because the contents of the page can change over time. 
• A Twitter profile has several tabs ("Tweets" is the default). To create a reference 
to one of the other tabs (e.g., "Lists" or "Moments"), substitute that tab name for 
"Tweets" in the reference. 
• Inelude the notation "Twitter pro file" in square brackets. 
105. Facebook post 
Gaiman, N. (2018, March 22). 100,000+ Rohingya refugees could be at serious risk 
during Bangladesh's monsoon season. My fellow UNHCR Goodwill Ambassador 
Cate Blanchett is [Image attached] [Status update]. Facebook. http://bit.ly/2JOxPAD 
National Institute of Mental Health. (2018, November 28). Suicide affects all ages, 
genders, races, and ethnicities. Check out these 5 Action Steps for Helping Some-
one in Emotional Pain [Infographic]. Facebook. http://bit.ly/3210stq 
News From Science. (2018, June 26). These frogs walk instead of hop: https://scim. 
ag/2KlriwH [Video]. Facebook. https://www.facebook.com/ScienceNOW/videos/ 
10155508587605108/ 
Parenthetical citations: (Gaiman, 2018; Nationallnstitute of Mental Health, 2018; 
News From Science, 2018) 
Narrative citations: Gaiman (2018), National Institute of Mental Health (2018), and 
News From Science (2018) 
• This format can be used for posts to other social media services, ineluding 
Tumblr, LinkedIn, and so forth. 
• If a status update ineludes images, videos, thumbnaillinks to outside sources, 
or content from another Facebook post (such as when sharing a link), indicate 
that in square brackets. 
• Replicate emojis if possible (see the introduction to Section 10.15 for more). 
106. Facebook page 
Smithsonian's National Zoo and Conservation Biology Institute. (n.d.). Home [Facebook 
pagel. Facebook. Retrieved July 22,2019, from https://www.facebook.com/ 
nationalzoo 
Parenthetical citation: (Smithsonian's National Zoo and Conservation Biology 
Institute, n.d.) 
Narrative citation: Smithsonian's National Zoo and Conservation Biology Institute 
(n.d.) 
• Use the page title in the reference (e.g., "Timeline," "Home," "Photos;' "About"). 
• Inelude the notation "Facebook page" in square brackets. 


=== PDF PAGE 365 ===
350 ~ REFERENCE EXAMPLES 
o 
This format can be used or adapted for references to other platform or profile 
pages, ineludingYouTube, Instagram, Tumblr, Linkedln, and so forth. 
107. Instagram photo or video 
Zeitz MOCAA [@zeitzmocaa]. (2018, November 26). Grade 6 leamers from Parkfields 
Primary School in Hanover Park visited the museum for a tour and workshop hosted 
by [Photographs]. Instagram. https://www.instagram.com/p/BqpHpjFBs3b/ 
Parenthetical citation: (Zeitz MOCAA, 2018) 
Narrative citation: Zeitz MOCAA (2018) 
108. Instagram highlight 
The New York Public Library [@nypl]. (n.d.). The rayen [Highlight]. Instagram. Retrieved 
April16, 2019, from https://bitly.com/2FV8bu3 
Parenthetical citation: (The New York Public Library, n.d.) 
Narrative citation: The New York Public Library (n.d.) 
o 
Use "n.d." for the date; although each story within a highlight is dated, the high-
light itself is not dated and may inelude stories from multiple dates. 
o 
Because a highlight can change at any time, inelude the retrieval date. 
o 
Because the URL was long and complex, it has been shortened (see Section 
9.36). Either the long or the short form ofthe URL is acceptable. 
109. Online forum post 
National Aeronautics and Space Administration [nasa]. (2018, September 12). I'm NASA 
astronaut Scott Tingle. Ask me anything about adjusting to being back on Earth 
after my first spaceflight! [Online forum post]. Reddit. https://www.reddit.com/r/ 
IAmAlcomments/9fagqy/im_nasa_astronauCscotCtingle_ask_me_anything/ 
Parenthetical citation: (National Aeronautics and Space Administration, 2018) 
Narrative citation: National Aeronautics and Space Administration (2018) 
o 
For more on formatting usernames, see Section 9.8. 
10.16 Webpages and Websites 
Use the webpages and websites category ifthere is no other reference category 
that fits and the work has no parent or overarching publication (e.g., journal, 
blog, conference proceedings) other than the website itself (see Section 9.2). 
If you cite multiple webpages from a website, create a reference for each. To 
mention a website in general, do not create a reference list entry or an in-text 
citation. Instead, indude the name of the website in the text and provide the 
URL in parentheses (see Section 8.22 for an example). 
For help in determining the author of a webpage or website reference, 
induding how the author can be inferred from context or found on an "about 
us" or acknowledgments page, see Example 113 as well as Section 9.7. Provide 
the most specific date possible (see Section 9.15 for information on how to 
handle updated dates or reviewed dates)-for example, ayear, month, and 
day; year and month; or year only. When the author name and the site name 
are the same, omit the site name from the source elemento Indude a retrieval 
date only when the content is designed to change over time and the page is not 
archived (see Section 9.16). 
--


=== PDF PAGE 366 ===
Online Media 
C\.v 
351 
, Use the template shown next to construct references for webpages or websites. 
Source 
I 
Author 
Date 
Title 
Website na me 
URL 
I 
Author, A. A., & 
(2020). 
Title of 
Site Name. 
https://xx.xxxx 
Author, B. B. 
(2020, August). 
work. 
Retrieved December 
Name of 
22, 2020, from 
Group. 
(2020, September 28). 
https://xxxxx 
(n.d .). 
110. Webpage on a news website 
Avramova, N. (2019, January 3). The secret to a long, happy, healthy life? Think age-
positive. CN N. https:/ /wvvw.cnn.com/2019/01/03/health/respect-toward-elderly-
leads-to-I on9-1 ife-i ntl/ i ndex. htm I 
Bologna, C. (2018, June 27). What happens to your mind and body when you feel 
homesick? H uffPost. https:/ /www.huffingtonpost.com/entry /wh at -ha ppens-m i nd-
body-homesick_us_5b201 ebde4b09d7 a3d77 eee 1 
Parenthetical citations: (Avramova, 2019; Bologna, 2018) 
Narrative citations: Avramova (2019) and Bologna (2018) 
• Use this format for articles published in online news sources (e.g., BBC News, 
Bloomberg, CNN, Huffpost, MSNBC, Reuters, Salon, Vox). To cite articles fram 
online magazine s or newspapers, see Examples 15 and 16. 
111. Webpage on a website with a group author 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. (2018, January 23). People at high risk of 
developing flu-re/ated complications. https://www.cdc.gov/flu/about/disease/high_ 
risk.htm 
World Health Organization. (2018, March). Questions and answers on immunization 
and vaccine safety. https://www.who.intlfeatures/qa/84/en/ 
Parenthetical citations: (Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2018; World 
Health Organization, 2018) 
Narrative citations: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (2018) and World 
Health Organization (2018) 
• When the author and site name are the same, omit the site name from the 
source elemento 
112. Webpage on a website with an individual author 
Martin Lillie, C. M. (2016, December 29). Be kind to yourself: How self-compassion can 
improve your resiliency. Mayo Clinic. https://www.mayoclinic.org/healthy-lifestyle/ 
ad u It -hea Ith/i n-depth/ se If-compassion-ca n-i m prove-you r-resi I iency / a rt -20267193 
Parenthetical citation: (Martin Lillie, 2016) 
Narrative citation: Martin Lillie (2016) 


=== PDF PAGE 367 ===
352 
~ REFERENCE EXAMPLES 
113. Webpage on a website with no date 
Boddy, J., Neumann, T., Jennings, S., Morrow, v., Alderson, P., Rees, R., & Gibson, 
W. (n.d.). Ethics principIes. The Research Ethics Guidebook: A Resource for Social 
Scientists. http://www.ethicsguidebook.ac.uklEthicsPrinciples 
National Nurses United. (n.d.). What employers shou/d do to protect nurses from Zika. 
https://www.nationalnursesunited.org/pages/what -empl oyers-shou Id-do-to-protect-
rns-from-zika 
Parenthetical citations: (Boddy et al., n.d.; National Nurses United, n.d.) 
Narrative citations: Boddy et al. (n.d.) and National Nurses United (n.d.) 
• In the Boddy et al. example, the authors are listed on the acknowledgments 
page of the site (see Section 9.7 for more on determining the author). 
o When the author and site name are the same, omit the site name from the 
source element. 
114. Webpage on a website with a retrieval date 
u.s. Census Bureau. (n.d.). U.S. and world popu/ation dock. U.S. Department of 
Commerce. Retrieved July 3, 2019, from https://www.census.gov/popclockl 
Parenthetical citation: (U.S. Census Bureau, n.d.) 
Narrative citation: U.S. Census Bureau (n.d.) 
• When the author and site name are the same, omit the site name from the 
source element. 
o 
Include a retrieval date because the contents of the page are designed to change 
over time and the page itself is not archived (see Section 9.16). 


=== PDF PAGE 368 ===


=== PDF PAGE 369 ===
Contents 
General Guidelines for Legal References 
355 
11 .1 APA Style References Versus Legal References 
355 
11.2 General Forms 
356 
11.3 
In-Text Citations of Legal Materials 
357 
Legal Reference Examples 
357 
11.4 Cases or Court Decisions 
357 
11.5 Statutes (Laws and Acts) 
361 
11.6 Legislative Materials 
363 
11 .7 Administrative and Executive Materials 
365 
11 .8 Patents 
366 
11 .9 Constitutions and Charters 
366 
11.10 Treaties and International Conventions 
368 


=== PDF PAGE 370 ===
11 
LEGAL REFERENCES 
In APA Style, most legal materials are cited in the standard legal citation style 
used for legal references across all disciplines. However, legal style has notable 
differences from the APA Style references outlined in Chapter 10. 
In this chapter, we provide information on how APA Style references dif-
fer from legal style references; general guidelines for creating APA Style legal 
references; in-text citation forms for legal materials; and examples of common 
legal references used in APA Style papers, including court decisions, statutes, 
legislative materials, administrative and executive materials, patents, constitu-
tions and charters, and treaties and international conventions. For the sake of 
brevity, only United States and United Nations legal examples are provided in 
this chapter. For more information on preparing these and other kinds of legal 
references, consult The Bluebook: A Uniform System oi Citation (Bluebook, 2015). 
General Guidelines for Legal References 
11.1 APA Style References Versus Legal References 
Existing legal references are usually already written in legal style and require 
few, if any, changes for an APA Style reference list entry. Note that sorne court 
decisions are reported in multiple places, which is called paral/el citation (see 
Example 6). When a work has parallel citations, include all the citations in 
your reference list entry. Existing legal citations generally include the parallel 
citations already, so you should not need to do additional research to find 
them. The in-text citation for a legal work is created from the reference list 
entry (see Section 11.3). 
Ensure that your legal references are accurate and contain all of the infor-
mation necessary to enable readers to locate the work being referenced. If you 
have questions beyond what is covered in this chapter, consult the Bluebook, a 
355 


=== PDF PAGE 371 ===
356 ~ LEGAL REFERENCES 
law librarian, or a law school website for help. For example, the Legal Infor-
mation Institute at Cornell Law School provides free guidance on legal cita-
tions (https://www.law.comell.edu). These resources will help you verify that 
your legal references (a) contain the information necessary for retrieval and (b) 
reflect the current status of the legal authority cited to avoid the possibility of . 
relying on a case that has been overturned on appeal or on legislation that has 
been significantly amended or repealed. Table 11.1 summarizes key differences 
between APA Style references and legal style references. 
11.2 General Forms 
A general form is provided for each of the legal reference types in the sections 
that follow. Each reference form usually includes a popular or formal title or 
name of the legislation and the reference information, which is called the citation. 
Note: The term "citation" is used differently for legal references than it is in standard 
APA Style. In this chapter, the legal reference sense of the word "citation" is meant 
when it appears without the modifier "in-text" 
Refer to the published statutory compilation of legislative materials where the 
legislation is codified (e.g., a specific numbered section of a specific volume of 
the United Sta tes Code), including the compilation's publication date in parenthe-
ses, if the legislation has be en codified. If the legislation has not yet been cod-
ified, provide the identifying label for the legislation assigned by the enacting 
body during the particular legislative session (e.g., a specific section of an act 
identified by its public law number). 
For both legislation and court decisions, the reference may be followed by 
certain additional descriptive information that pertains to the content of the 
legislation or court decision, the history of the legislation or court decision (e.g., 
later appeals of court decisions or later amendments to legislation), or other 
sources from which the legislation or court citation may be retrieved. Consult 
the Bluebook for the proper format for such additional information. 
Table 11.1 Key Differences Between APA 5tyle References and Legal References 
Difference 
APA 5tyle 
Legal style 
Order of elements in the 
Usually the author, date, title, 
Usually the title, source, and date, in that order 
reference list entry 
and source, in that order 
In-text citation 
Usua lIy the author and year 
Usually the title and year 
Version of work being 
The exact version used 
The version of record as published in an official 
referenced 
legal publication such as the United Sta tes Code 
or the Federal Register, plus a URL (optional) for 
the version used 
Use of standard 
Used for parts of a work 
Used for common legal entities and publications 
abbreviations 
(e.9., "2nd ed." for a second 
(e.g., "S." for the Senate and "H.R." for the 
edition) 
House of Representatives) 


=== PDF PAGE 372 ===
·Table 11.2 Common Legal Reference Abbreviations 
Word or phrase 
Part of government 
Congress 
House of Representatives 
Senate 
Type of legal material 
Regulation 
Resolution 
Section of legal material 
Section 
Sections 
Number 
And following 
Reporter (source) of federal legal material 
United Sta tes Reports 
Federal Reporter 
Federal Reporter, Second Series 
Federal Reporter, Third Series 
Federal Supplement 
Federal Supplement, Second Series 
Federal Supplement, Third Series 
United Sta tes Code 
Congressional Record 
Federal Register 
Legal Reference Examples 
Abbreviation 
Congo 
H.R. 
S. 
Reg. 
Res. 
§ 
§§ 
No. 
et seq. 
u.s. 
F. 
F.2d 
F3d 
F Supp. 
F Supp. 2d 
F Supp. 3d 
u.s.e. 
Congo Rec. 
FR. 
Because legal references may include a great deal of information (e.g., a cita-
tion to a case may include information about appeals), legal reference style uses 
abbreviations to make references shorter. See Table 11.2 for sorne examples of 
the more common legal abbreviations that appear in APA Style papers. 
11.3 In-Text Citations of Legal Materials 
Although the reference formats for legal materials differ from those of other 
kinds ofworks cited in APA publications, in-text citations are formed in approx-
imately the same way and serve the same purpose. Most legal reference entries 
begin with the title of the work; as a result, most in-text citations consist of the 
title and year (e.g., Americans With Disabilities Act, 1990; Brown V. Board oi Educa-
tion, 1954). Ifthe title is long (e.g., for federal testimony), shorten it for the in-text 
citation (see Example 11), but give enough information in the in-text citation to 
enable readers to locate the entry in the reference listo Examples of in-text cita-
tions and reference entries for legal materials are given in the sections that follow. 
Legal Reference Examples 
11.4 Cases or Court Decisions 
A reference for a case or court decision includes the following information: 
• title or name of the case, usually one party versus another (e.g., Brown V . 
Board oi Education); 
~ 357 


=== PDF PAGE 373 ===
358 
~ LEGAL REFERENCES 
• citation, usually to a volume and page of one of the various sets of books 
where published cases can be found called reporters, which typically contain 
decisions of courts in particular political divisions, which are called jurisdic-
tions (eogo, Federal Reporter, Second Series); 
• precise jurisdiction ofthe court writing the decision (eogo, Supreme Court, . 
New York Court of Appeals), in parentheses; 
• date of the decision, in parentheses (in the same set of parentheses as the 
jurisdiction if both are present); and 
• URL from which you retrieved the case information (optional; this is not 
strictly required for legal citations but may aid readers in retrieval)o 
To create a reference list entry for the case you want to cite, first identiry the 
court that decided the case and then follow the relevant exampleo Often, the 
document about the case will have the relevant citation included, or it can easily 
be retrieved by searching the internet for the name of the court decision and the 
word "citationo" When a reference list entry for a case or court decision includes 
a page number, provide only the first page numbero Do not provide the page 
range for the whole case or decisiono 
Note: Unlike other reference types, the title or na me of a case is written in standard 
type in the reference list entry and in italic type in the in-text citation. 
Federal Court Decisionso The United States has both federal and state court 
systemso Within federal courts there are multiple levels of authority, and deci-
sions from these courts are published in different publicationso 
• UoSo Supreme Court: Decisions from the UoSo Supreme Court, the highest 
federal court, are published in the United Sta tes Reports (other reporters may 
also publish Supreme Court decisions)o The template for Supreme Court 
decisions is as follows: 
Reference list: Name v. Name, Volume UoS. Page (Year)o URL 
Parenthetical citation: (Name v. Name, Year) 
Narrative citation: Name v. Name (Year) 
• UoSo Circuit Court: Decisions from the UoSo Circuit Court are published 
in the Federal Reportero The template for U.So Circuit Court decisions is as 
follows: 
Reference Iist: Name Vo Name, Volume F. [or F.2d, F.3d] Page (Court Year). URL 
Parenthetical citation: (Name v. Name, Year) 
Narrative citation: Name v. Name (Year) 
• U.So District Court: Decisions from the UoSo District Court are published in 
the Federal Supplementso The template for U.So District Court decisions is as 
follows: 
Reference Iist: Name v. Name, Volume F. Su pp. Page (Court Year). URL 
Parenthetical citation: (Name v. Name, Year) 
Narrative citation: Name v. Name (Year) 


=== PDF PAGE 374 ===
Legal Reference Examples 
~ 359 
. State Court Decisions. At the state level, courts also operate at different levels 
of authority, although different states have different names for the levels. These 
levels are as follows: 
• State supreme court: The state supreme court is generally the highest state 
court (the state ofNewYork is one exception; the court of appeals is the high-
est court in that state). 
• State appellate court: The state court of appeals, also called appellate court, 
is the intermediate court wherein precedent begins to be established. 
• State tri al court: The state tri al court is the lowest court of the state. State 
trial court decisions are seldom cited because they do not establish prece-
dent, and they are not reported in the prominent legal databases Nexis Uni 
(formerly LexisNexis Academic) or WestLaw. 
The template for state court decisions is as follows: 
Reference list: Name v. Name, Volume Reporter Page (Court Year). URL 
Parenthetical citation: (Name v. Name, Year) 
Narrative citation: Name v. Name (Year) 
1. U.S. Supreme Court case, with a page number 
Brown v. Board of Education, 347 U.S. 483 (1954). https://www.oyez.org/cases/1940-1955/ 
347us483 
Parenthetical citation: (Brown v. Board of Education, 1954) 
Narrative citation: Brown v. Board of Education (1954) 
• U.S. Supreme Court decisions are published in the United States Reports (abbrevi-
ated "US." in the reference). For example, the decision to eliminate racial segrega-
tion in public schools, Brown v. Board of Education, was published in Volume 347 of 
the United States Reports, on page 483, in the year 1954. Cite Supreme Court deci-
sions as published in the United States Reports whenever possible; cite the Supreme 
Court Reporter for cases that have not yet been published in United States Reports. 
2. U.S. Supreme Court case, without a page number 
Obergefell v. Hodges, 576 U.S. _ 
(2015). https://www.supremecourt.gov/opinions/14pdf/ 
14-556_3204.pdf 
Parenthetical citation: (Obergefell v. Hodges, 2015) 
Narrative citation: Obergefell v. Hodges (2015) 
• The court decision to legalize same-sex marriage in the United States, Obergefell 
v. Hodges, occurred in 2015 and was published in Volume 576 of the United States 
Reports. However, as of the printing of this Publication Manual, the paginated vol-
umes of the United States Reports have been published only for decisions through 
the 2012 Supreme Court termo For cases that have not been assigned a page num-
ber (like Obergefell V. Hodges), include three underscores instead of the page 
number in the reference list entry. 
3. U.S. circuit court case 
Daubert V. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 951 F.2d 1128 (9th Cir. 1991). https://openjurist. 
org/951 /f2d/ 1128/william-daubert-v-merrell-dow-pharmaceuticals 
Parenthetical citation: (Daubert v. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, Inc., 1991) 
Narrative citation: Daubert V. Merrell Dow Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (1991) 


=== PDF PAGE 375 ===
360 ~ LEGAL REFERENCES 
• This court decision regarding birth defects resulting fram me di ca ti o n use during 
pregnancy appeared in Volume 951 of the Federal Reporter, Second Series, on page 
1128, and was decided by the 9th Circuit Court in the year 1991. 
4. U.S. district court case 
Burriola v. GreaterToledo YMCA, 133 F. Supp. 2d 1034 (N.o. Ohio 2001). https://law.justia. 
com/caseslfederal/district-courts/FSupp2/133/1 034/2293141 / 
Parenthetical citation: (Burriola v. Greater Toledo YMCA, 2001) 
Narrative citation: Burriola v. Greater Toledo YMCA (2001) 
• This court decision stating that children with special needs should receive accom-
modations for services at public after-school-care providers under the Americans 
With Disabilities Act of 1990 appeared in Volume 133 of the Federal Supplement, Sec-
ond Series, on page 1034. It was decided by the U.S. District Court for the Northern 
District of Ohio in the year 2001. 
5. U.S. district court case with appeal 
Durflinger v. Artiles, 563 F. Supp. 322 (D. Kan. 1981), aff'd, 727 F.2d 888 (10th Cir. 1984). 
https://openjurist.org/7271f2d/888/durflinger-v-artiles 
Parenthetical citation: (Durflinger v. Arti/es, 1981/1984) 
Narrative citation: Durflinger v. Artiles (1981/1984) 
• This court decision regarding whether third parties should be protected fram 
involuntarily committed psychiatric patients in state custody was rendered by the 
federal district court for the District of Kansas in the year 1981. On appea!, the 
decision was affirmed by the federal-leve! 10th Circuit Court of Appeals in 1984. 
Information about both the original decision and the appealed decision appears in 
the reference list entry. 
• If on appeal the decision is affirmed, the abbreviation "aff'd" is used between the 
two components, in italics and set off by commas; if the decision is overturned or 
reversed, the abbreviation "rev'd" is used, in italics and set off by commas. 
• Consult the Bluebook for the proper forms of the various stages in a case's history. 
6. State supreme court case 
Tarasoff v. Regents of the University of Califomia, 17 Cal.3d 425, 131 Cal. Rptr. 14,551 P.2d 
334 (1976). https:/ /www.casebriefs.com/blog/law/torts/torts-keyed-to-dobbs/the-duty-
to-protect-from-third-persons/tarasoff-v-regents-of-university-of-california 
Parenthetical citation: (Tarasoff v. Regents of the University of California, 1976) 
Narrative citation: Tarasoff v. Regents of the University of California (1976) 
• This court decision he Id that mental health professionals have a duty to protect 
individuals who are being threatened with bodily harm by a patient. It was decided 
by the Supreme Court of the State of California in the year 1976. 
• The court decision was reported in three places, which are all included in the par-
alle! citation (see Section 11.1), shown here separated with commas. These three 
sources are Volume 17 of the California Reports, Third Series (CaI.3d), page 425; Vol-
ume 131 ofthe California Reporter (Cal. Rptr.), page 14; and Volume 551 ofthe Pacific 
Reporter, Second Series (P.2d), page 334. AII three report locations are generally 
reported together, so no additional research is needed to find them. 


=== PDF PAGE 376 ===
Legal Reference Examples 
~ 361 
,7. State appellate court case 
Texas v. Morales, 826 SW2d 201 (Tex. Ct. App. 1992). https://www. leagle.com/decision/ 
. 19921 027826sw2d20111 01 O 
Parenthetical citation: (Texas v. Morales, 1992) 
Narrative citation: Texas v. Morales (1992) 
• This court decision found that the equal protection and due process components 
of the Texas Constitution prohibit the criminalization of consensual same-sex 
activity among adults in private. It was published in Volume 826 of the South West-
ern Reporter, Second Series, page 201, decided by the Texas State Court of Appeals in 
the year 1992. 
11.5 Statutes (Laws and Acts) 
A statute is a law or act passed by a legislative body. As with court decisions, stat-
utes exist on both the federal and state levels, such as an act passed by Congress 
or by a state government. 
Federal statutes are published in the United States Code (U.S.e.). The U.S.e. is 
divided into sections called titles- for example, Title 42 refers to public health 
and welfare. New laws are then added to the appropriate title as a way ofkeep-
ing the law organized. State statutes are published in state-specific compila-
tions; for example, statutes pertaining to the state of Florida are published in 
the Florida Statutes. State sta tutes are also typically organized into titles. 
In the reference list entry for a federal or state statute, include the name of 
the act; the title, source (abbreviated as specified in the Bluebook), and section 
number of the statute; and, in parentheses, the publication date of the stat-
utory compilation you used (e.g., the U.S.e. or a state-specific compilation). 
You may include the URL from which you retrieved the statute after the year. 
This is not strictly required for legal citations but may aid readers in retrieval. 
In the in-text citation, give the popular or official name of the act (if any) 
and the year of the act. Determining the year for the statute can be confusing 
because there is often ayear when the statute was first passed, ayear when it 
was amended, and ayear when it was supplemented. The year in the reference 
list entry and in-text citation should refer to the year in which the statute was 
published in the source being cited. This date may be different from the year in 
the name of the acto 
The template for federal or state statutes is as follows: 
Reference list: Name of Act, Title Source § Section Number (Year). URL 
Parenthetical citation: (Na me of Act, Year) 
Narrative citation: Name of Act (Year) 
The format for state statutes may differ depending on the state but generally 
follows the same format as for federal statutes. Consult the Bluebook or another 
legal resource for further information on your particular state. For example, a 
few states use chapter or article numbers instead of section numbers; for a ref-
erence to a statute from one of these states, use the chapter or article number 
in the reference in place of the section number. U se abbreviations or symbols 
as shown in the Bluebook. 
To cite a federal statute (i.e., a law or act), cite the sta tute as it was codified in 
the United Sta tes Codeo You may see a public law number on the act as well; this 
number is used in the reference list entry when the act is codified in scattered 


=== PDF PAGE 377 ===
362 ~ LEGAL REFERENCES 
sections (see Example 9) or to refer to an act before it is codified (see Example 
11). However, if a statute has been codified in the United States Cade in a single 
section or range of sections (see Example 8),it is not necessary to include the 
public law number in the reference. 
. 
Next are several examples of acts commonly cited in APA Style papers. Cita-
tions to other federal statutes follow the same formato 
8. Federal statute, Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990 
Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990, 42 U.s.e. § 12101 et seq. (1990). https://www. 
ada.gov/pubs/adastatute08.htm 
Parenthetical citation: (Americans With Disabilities Act, 1990) 
Narrative citation: Americans With Disabilities Act (1990) 
• This act can be located beginning at Section 12101 of Title 42 of the United States 
Code and was codified in the year 1990. The phrase "et seq." is Latin for "and what 
follows" and is a shorthand way of showing that the act covers not only the initial 
section cited but also others that follow. 
9. Federal statute, Civil Rights Act of 1964 
Civil Rights Act of 1964, Pub. L. No. 88-352, 78 Stat. 241 (1964). https://www.govinfo.güv/ 
content/pkg/STATUTE-78/pdflSTATUTE-7 8-Pg241 .pdf 
Parenthetical citation: (Civil Rights Act, 1964) 
Narrative citation: Civil Rights Act (1964) 
• The Civil Rights Act of 1964 is codified in the United States Code in three scattered 
sections: 2 U.S.C., 28 U.S.C., and 42 U.S.C. To cite the entire act, use the public law 
number as shown in the example. 
10. Federal statute, Every Student Succeeds Act 
Every Student Succeeds Act, 20 U.s.e. § 6301 (2015). https://www.congress.gov/1 14/ 
plaws/pubI95/PLAW-114pubI95.pdf 
Parenthetical citation: (Every Student Succeeds Act, 2015) 
Narrative citation: Every Student Succeeds Act (2015) 
• The Every Student Succeeds Act pertains to educational policy for students in 
public primary and secondary schools. It was codified in Title 20 of the United 
Sta tes Code in Section 6301 in the year 2015. 
11. Federal statute, Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009 
Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009, Pub. L. No. 111-2, 123 Stat. 5 (2009). https://www. 
govinfo.gov/contentlpkg/PLAW-111 pubI2/pdf/PLAW-11 1 publ2.pdf 
Parenthetical citation: (Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, 2009) 
Narrative citation: Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act (2009) 
• The Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act of 2009 amended Title VII of the Civil Rights Act 
(1964) and other acts and pertains to fair wage compensation. Because it was not 
codified in the United Sta tes Code, cite the public law number. It was published in 
Volume 123 of the United States Statutes at Large (abbreviated "Stat.") beginning on 
page 5 in the year 2009. 


=== PDF PAGE 378 ===
Legal Reference Examples 
~ 363 
12. Federal statute, Title IX (Patsy Mink Equal Opportunity in Education Act) 
Patsy Mink Equal Opportunity in Education Act, 20 U.s.e. § 1681 et seq. (1972): https:// 
www.justice.gov/crtltitle~ix-education-amendments-1972 
Parenthetical citation: (Patsy Mink Equal Opportunity in Education Act, 1972) 
Narrative citation: Patsy Mink Equal Opportunity in Education Act (1972) 
• The Patsy Mink Equal Opportunity in Education Act, commonly knawn as Title 
IX, prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex in federally funded educational 
programs such as sports. It was published in Volume 20 of the United States Code, 
beginning at Section 1681, in the year 1972. Note that "Title IX" refers to part of 
the Education Amendments of 1972, not Title 9 of the United Sta tes Codeo 
13. State statute in state code 
Florida Mental Health Act, Fla. Stat. § 394 (1971 & rev. 2009). http://www.leg.state.fl.us/ 
statutes/index.dm?App_mode=Display_Statute&URL=0300-0399/0394/0394.html 
Parenthetical citation: (Florida Mental Health Act, 1971 /2009) 
Narrative citation: Florida Mental Health Act (1971/2009) 
• This Florida act can be found in the Florida Statutes, Section 394. It was first cod-
ified in the year 1971 and then revised in 2009. Both years appear in the in-text 
citation, separated by a slash. 
• Consult the Bluebook for formats for other states. 
11.6 Legislative Materials 
Legislative materials inelude federal testimony, hearings, bills, resolutions, 
reports, and related documents. Bills and resolutions that have been passed by 
both houses of Congress and signed by the president become law and should 
be cited as statutes (see Section 11.5). To cite an unenacted bill or resolution 
(i.e., one that was not passed by both houses of Congress) or an enacted bill or 
resolution that was not signed into law, follow the forms in this section. W hen 
a URL for the material is available, it is optional to inelude it at the end of the 
reference list entry. 
14. Federal testimony 
Template: 
Title of testimony, xxx Congo (Year) (testimony of Testifier Name). URL 
Example: 
Federal real property refarm: How cutting red tape and better management could achieve 
billions in savings, U.S. Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Govemmental 
Affairs, 114th Congo (2016) (testimony of Norman Dong). http://www.gsa.gov/portal/ 
content/233107 
Parenthetical citation: (Federal Real Property Reform, 2016) 
Narrative citation: Federal Real Property Reform (2016) 
• For the title af federal testimony, include the title as it appears on the work and 
the subcommittee and/or committee name (if anyl, separated by a comma. Then 
provide the number of the Congress, the year in parentheses, and "testimony of" 
followed by the name of the persan who gave the testimony in separate parenthe-
ses. When the testimony is available online, also include a URL. 


=== PDF PAGE 379 ===
364 
~ LEGAL REFERENCES 
15. Full federal hearing 
Template: 
Title of hearing, xxx Congo (Year). URL 
Example: 
Strengthening thefederal student loan program for borrowers: Hearing befo re the . 
U.S. Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor & Pensions, 113th Congo (2014). 
https://www.help.senate.gov/hearings/strengthening-the-federa I-student -loa n-
program-for-borrowers 
Parenthetical citation: (Strengthening the Federal Student Loan Program, 2014) 
Narrative citatíon: Strengtheníng the Federal Student Loan Program (2014) 
• For the title of a full federal hearing, include the name of the hearing and the sub-
committee name. Provide the number of the Congress and year. When a video or 
other information about the hearing is available online, include its URL. 
16. Unenacted federal bill or resolution 
Template: 
Title [if relevantl, H.R. or S. bill number, xxx Congo (Year). URL 
Title [if relevantl, H.R. or S. Res. resolution number, xxx Congo (Year). URL 
Example: 
Mental Health on Campus Improvement Act, H.R. 1100, 113th Congo (2013). https:// 
www.congress.gov/bill/113th-congress/house-bill/1100 
Parenthetícal citatíon: (Mental Health on Campus Improvement Act, 2013) 
Narratíve citatíon: Mental Health on Campus Improvement Act (2013) 
o 
The number should be preceded by "H.R." (House of Representatives) or "S." 
(Senate), depending on the source of the unenacted bill or resolution. 
17. Enacted simple or concurrent federal resolution 
Template for Senate: 
S. Res. xxx, xxx Cong., Volume Congo Rec. Page (Year) (enacted). URL 
Template for House of Representatives: 
H.R. Res. xxx, xxx Cong., Volume Congo Rec. Page (Year) (enacted). URL 
Example: 
S. Res. 438, 114th Cong., 162 Congo Rec. 2394 (2016) (enacted). https://www.congress. 
gov / cong ressiona l-record/20 1 6/04/21 /senate-section/ a rticle/S23 94-2 
Parenthetícal citatíon: (S. Resolution 438, 2016) 
Narratíve citatíon: Senate Resolution 438 (2016) 
• Use this format to cite enacted simple or concurrent resolutions from Congress. 
These resolutions are reported in the Congressional Record (abbreviated "Cong. 
Rec."). 
o 
Enacted bilis and joint resolutions are laws and should be cited as statutes (see 
Section 11.5). 
o 
In the example, the Senate designated September 2016 as National Brain Aneu-
rysm Awareness Month. The resolution is numbered 438 and is reported in Vol-
ume 162 of the Congressional Record on page 2394. 
18. Federal report 
Template for Senate: 
S. Rep. No. xxx-xxx (Year). URL 


=== PDF PAGE 380 ===
Legal Reference Examples 
~ 365 
Template for House of Representatives: 
H.R. Rep. No. xxx-xxx (Year). URL 
Example: 
H.R. Rep. No. 114-358 (2015). https://www:gpo.gov/fdsys/pkg/CRPT-114hrpt358/pdf/ 
CRPT-114hrpt358.pdf 
Parenthetical citation: (H.R. Rep. No. 114-358, 2015) 
Narrative citation: House of Representatives Report No. 114-358 (2015) 
o 
This report was submitted to the House of Representatives by the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs concerning the Veterans Employment, Education, and Health-
care Improvement Act. 
o 
For reports submitted to the Senate, use the abbreviation "S. Rep. No." in the 
reference list entry and "Senate Report No." in the in-text citation. 
11.7 Administrative and Executive Materials 
Administrative and executive materials include rules and regulations, advisory 
opinions, and executive orders. 
19. Federal regulation, codified 
Template: 
Title or Number, Volume C.F.R. § xxx (Year). URL 
Example: 
Protection of Human Subjects, 45 C.F.R. § 46 (2009). https://www.hhs.gov/ohrp/sites/ 
default/files/ohrp/policy/ohrpregulations.pdf 
Parenthetical citation: (Protection of Human Subjects, 2009) 
Narrative citation: Protection of Human Subjects (2009) 
o 
Official federal regulations are published in the Code of Federal Regulations. In the 
reference, provide the title or number of the regulation, the volume number in 
which the regulation appears in the Code of Federal Regulations, the abbreviation 
"c.F.R.," the section number, and the year in which the regulation was codified. If 
the regulation is available online, provide the URL. 
20. Federal regulation, not yet codified 
Template: 
Title or Number, Volume F.R. Page (proposed Month Day, Year) (to be codified at Volume 
C.F.R. § xxx). URL 
Example: 
Defining and Delimiting the Exemptions for Executive, Administrative, Professional, 
Outside Sales and Computer Employees, 81 F.R. 32391 (proposed May 23, 2016) 
(to be codified at 29 C.F.R. § 541). https:!/www.federalregister.gov/articles/2016/05/ 
23/2016-11754/defining-and-delimiting-the-exemptions-for-executive-administrative-
professiona I-outsi de-sa les-a nd 
Parenthetical citation: (Defining and Delimiting, 2016) 
Narrative citation: Defining and Delimiting (2016) 
o 
If the regulation has not yet been codified in the Code of Federal Regulations, it 
wiU appear in the Federal Register first. Indicate this by the abbreviation "F.R." 
instead of "c.F.R." Instead of the year codified, provide the date of proposa!. 
AIso inelude the section of the Code of Federal Regulations where the proposed 
rule will be codified. 
