=== PAGE 106 ===
Reporting Standards for Quantitative Research 
Recruitment. Provide dates defining the periods of recruitment and follow-up 
and the primary sources of participants, when appropriate. If recruitment and 
. follow-up dates differ by group, provide the dates for each group. 
Statistics and Data Analysis. Analyses of the data and reporting of the results 
of those analyses are fundamental aspects of the conduct of research. Accu-
rate, unbiased, complete, and insightful reporting of the analytic treatment 
of data (be it quantitative or qualitative) must be a component of all research 
reports. Researchers in the field of psychology use numerous approaches to 
the analysis of data, and no one approach is uniformly preferred as long as the 
method is appropriate to the research questions being asked and the nature 
of the data collected. The methods used must support their analytic burdens, 
including robustness to violations of the assumptions that underlie them, and 
must provide clear, unequivocal insights into the data. In reporting your statis-
tical and data analyses, adhere to the organizational structure suggested in the 
Method section (see Section 3.6): primary hypotheses, secondary hypotheses, 
and exploratory hypotheses. Ensure that you have reported the results of data 
diagnoses (see Section 3.6) in the Method section before you report the results 
linked to hypothesis confirmation or disconfirmation. Discuss any exclusions, 
transformations, or imputation decisions that resulted from the data diagnosis. 
Historically, researchers in psychology have relied heavily on null hypoth-
esis significance testing (NHST) as a starting point for many of their analytic 
approaches. Different fields and publishers have different policies; APA, for 
example, stresses that NHST is but a starting point and that additional reporting 
elements such as effect sizes, confidence intervals, and extensive description 
are needed to convey the most complete meaning of the results (Wilkinson & 
the Task Force on Statistical Inference, 1999; see also APA, n.d.-b). The degree to 
which any journal emphasizes NHST is a decision of the individual editor. How-
ever, complete reporting of all tested hypotheses and estimates of appropriate 
effect sizes and confidence intervals are the minimum expectations for all APA 
journals. Researchers are always responsible for the accurate and responsible 
reporting of the results of their research study. 
Assume that readers have a pro

=== PAGE 107 ===
88 ~ JOURN AL ARTICLE REPORTING STANDARDS 
Reporting Results of Inferential Statistical Tests. When reporting the results of 
inferential statistical tests or when providing estimates of parameters or effect 
sizes, indude sufficient information to help readers fully understand the analy-
ses conducted and possible alternative explanations for the outcomes of those 
analyses. Because each analytic technique depends on different aspects of the 
. data and assumptions, it is impossible to specify what constitutes a "sufficient 
set of statistics" in general terms. However, such a set usually indudes at least 
the following: per-cell sample sizes, observed cell means (or frequencies of 
cases in each category for a categorical variable), and cell standard deviations 
or pooled within-cell variance. In the case of multivariable analytic systems, 
such as multivariate analyses of variance, regression analyses, structural equa-
tion modeling, and hierarchicallinear modeling, the associated means, sam-
pIe sizes, and variance-covariance (or correlation) matrix or matrices often 
represent a sufficient set of statistics. At times, the amount of information that 
constitutes a sufficient set of statistics is extensive; when this is the ~ase, the 
information could be supplied in a supplementary data set or an appendix 
(see Sections 2.14- 2.15). For analyses based on small samples (induding N-of-1 
investigations; see Section 3.10), consider providing the complete set of raw 
data in atable or figure, provided that confidentiality can be maintained. Your 
work will more easily become a part of the cumulative knowledge of the field 
if you indude enough statistical information to allow its indusion in future 
meta-analyses. 
For inferential statistical tests (e.g., t, F, and chi-square tests), indude the 
obtained magnitude or value of the test statistic, the degrees of freedom, the 
probability of obtaining a value as extreme as or more extreme than the one 
obtained (exact p value), and the size and direction of the effect. When point 
estimates (e.g., sample means, regression coefficients) are provided, always 
indude an associated measure of variability (precision), with an indication of 
the specific measure used (e.g., standard error). 
Inclusion of Conjidence Intervals. It can be extremely effective to indude confi-
dence intervals (for estimates of parameters; functions of parameters, such as 
differences in means; and effect sizes) when reporting results. B

=== PAGE 108 ===
Reporting Standards for Quantitative Research 
Eifect Sizes. For readers to appreciate the magnitude or importance of a study's 
findings, it is recommendeo to include sorne measure of effect size in the Results 
section. Effect sizes are statistical estimates; therefore, whenever possible, pro-
vide a confidence interval for each effect size reported to indicate the precision 
of estimation of the effect size .. Effect sizes may be expressed in the original units 
(e.g., mean number of questions answered correctIy, kilograms per month for 
a regression slope) and are most easily understood when reported as such. It 
is valuable to also report an effect size in sorne standardized or units-free or 
scale-free unit (e.g., Cohen's d value) or a stahdardized regression weight. Mul-
tiple degree-of-freedom effect-size indicators are less useful than effect-size 
indicators that decompose multiple degree-of-freedom tests into meaningful 
one degree-of-freedom effects, particularly when the latter are the results that 
inform the discussion. The general principIe to follow is to provide readers with 
enough information to assess the magnitude of the observed effect. 
Studies With Experimental Manipulations or Interventions. In studies reporting the 
results of experimental manipulations or interventions, clarify whether the 
analysis was by intent to treat. That is, were all participants assigned to condi-
tions included in the data analysis regardless of whether they actually received 
the intervention, or were only participants who completed the intervention sat-
isfactorily included? Give a rationale for the choice. 
Ancillary Analyses. Report any other analyses performed, including subgroup 
analyses and adjusted analyses, indicating those that were prespecified and 
those that were exploratory (although not necessarily in the level of detail of 
primary analyses). Consider putting the detailed results of ancillary analyses in 
supplemental materials. Discuss the implications, if any, of the ancillary analy-
ses for statistical error rates. 
Baseline Data. Be sure to provide baseline demographic and/or clinical charac-
teristics of each group. 
Adverse Events. If interventions were studied, detail all important adverse 
events (i.e., events with serious consequences) and/or side effects in each inter-
vention group. If none occurred, note this as well. 
3.8 Quantitative Discussion Standards 
After presenting the results, you are in a position to evaluate and 

=== PAGE 109 ===
90 
C\.v 
JOURNAL ARTICLE REPORTING STANDARDS 
Discuss the implications of exploratory analyses in terms of both substantive 
findings and error rates that may be uncontrolled. 
Similarities and differences between your results and the work of others 
(where they exist) should be us.ed to contextualize, confirm, and clarify your 
conclusions. Do not simply reformulate and repeat points already made; each 
new statement should contribute to your interpretation and to readers' under-
standing of the problem. 
Limitations and Strengths. Your interpretation of the results should take into 
account (a) sources of potential bias and other threats to internal validity, (b) the 
imprecision of measures, (c) the overall number of tests and/or overIap among 
tests, (d) the adequacy of sample sizes and sampling validity, and (e) other limita-
tions or weaknesses of the study. If an intervention or manipulation is involved, 
discuss whether it was successfully implemented, and note the mechanism 
by which it was intended to work (i.e., its causal pathways and/or alternative 
mechanisms). Discuss the fidelity with which the intervention or manipulation 
was implemented, and describe the barriers that were responsible for any lack 
of fidelity. Acknowledge the limitations of your research, and address alterna-
tive explanations of the results. Discuss the generalizability, or external valid-
ity, of the findings. This critical analysis should take into account differences 
between the target population and the accessed sample. For interventions, dis-
cuss characteristics that make them more or les s applicable to circumstances 
not included in the study, what outcomes were measured and how (relative 
to other measures that might have been used), the length of time to measure-
ment (between the end of the intervention and the measurement of outcomes), 
incentives, compliance rates, and specific settings involved in the study as well 
as other contextual issues. 
Study Implications. End the Discussion section with a reasoned and justifiable 
commentary on the importance of your findings. This concluding section may 
be brief, or it may be extensive if it is tightly reasoned, self-contained, and not 
overstated. In the conclusion, consider returning to a discussion of why the 
problem is important (as stated in the introduction); what larger issues, mean-
ing those that transcend the particulars of the subfield, might hinge on the find-
ings; and what propositions are conf

=== PAGE 110 ===
Reporting Standards for Quantitative Research 
3.9 Additional Reporting Standards for Typical Experimental and 
Nonexperimental Studies 
As mentioned in Section 3.5, the reporting standards in Table 3.1 apply to all 
quantitative studies. Additional standards apply because of particular design 
features or empirical claims made. Studies with experimental (e.g., studies using 
random assignment, studies using nonrandom assignment, clinical trials) and 
nonexperimental designs have these additional specific reporting standards. 
See Figure 3.1 for a flowchart of what standards to use for your research and 
links to the associated standard s on the JARS website. 
Studies Using Random Assignment. Describe the unit of randomization and 
the procedures used to generate assignments. Be careful to note when units 
such as classrooms are the unit of randomization, even though data collection 
may be from individual students within the classroom. Indicate the unit of ran-
domization in the analysis of such study outcomes as well. Describe masking 
provisions used to ensure the quality of the randomization process. 
Studies Using Nonrandom Assignment. Describe the unit of assignment and 
the method (rules) used to assign the unit to the condition, including details 
of any assignment restrictions such as blocking, stratification, and so forth. 
Describe any procedures used to minimize selection bias such as matching or 
propensity score matching. 
Clínical Trials. Within the JARS context, a clinical trial or a randomized clinical 
trial is a research investigation that evaluates the effects of one or more health-
related interventions (e.g., psychotherapy, medication) on health outcomes by 
prospectively assigning people to experimental conditions. As used here, a clin-
ical trial is a subset of a class of studies called "randomized control studies," and 
the reporting standard s for clinical trials apply to randomized control studies as 
well. Most clinical trials are experimental studies with random assignment, so 
all reporting standards for those types of studies also apply. Report information 
about the clinical trial aspect of the study. Ifthe trial has been registered (e.g., 
on ClinicaITrials.gov), report its registration on the title page in the author note 
(see Section 2.7) and in the texto In the Method section, provide details of any 
site-specific considerations if the trial is a multisite trial. Provide access to the 
study protocol; if the study is a 

=== PAGE 111 ===
92 ~ JOURNAL ARTICLE REPORTING STANDARDS 
3.10 Reporting Standards for Special Designs 
Studies with sorne special designs (e.g., longitudinal, N-of-l, replication) have 
specific reporting standards. See Figure 3.1 for a flowchart of what standards 
to use for your research, including studies with special designs, and links to the 
associated standards on the JARS website. 
Longitudinal Studies. A longitudinal study involves the observation of the same 
individuals using the same set of measurements (or attributes) at multiple times 
or occasions. This multiple observational structure may be combined with 
other research designs, including those with and without experimental manipu-
lations, randomized clinical trials, or any other study type. Reporting standards 
for longitudinal studies must combine those for the basic underlying study 
structure with those specific to a longitudinal study. 
Thus, in addition to the information dictated by the underlying structure of the 
study, report information about the longitudinal aspects of the study. For exam-
pIe, describe sample recruitment and retention methods, including attrition at 
each wave of data collection and how any missing data were handled. Describe 
any contextual changes that occurred during the progress of the study (e.g., a 
major economic recession). Report any changes in instrumentation that occurred 
over the course of the study, such as a change in leve! of a measure of school 
achievement. Because longitudinal studies are often reported in a segmental fash-
ion, report where any portions of the data have been previously published and 
the degree of overlap with the current report (see Section 1.16). 
N-of-l Studies. Studies with N-of-l designs occur in several different forms; 
however, the essential feature of all these designs is that the unit of study is a 
single entity (usually a person). In sorne N-of-l studies, several individual results 
are described, and consistency of results may be a central point of the discus-
sion. No N-of-l study, however, combines the results from several cases (e.g., by 
computing averages). 
Describe the design type (e.g., withdrawal-reversal, multiple base!ine, alter-
nating-simultaneous treatments, changing criterion) and its phases and phase 
sequence when one or more manipulations have been used. Indicate whether 
and how randomization was used. For each participant, report the sequence 
actually completed and the participant's results, including ra

=== PAGE 112 ===
Reporting Standards for Qua litative Research 
that were used in deciding the degree to which the original results were repli-
cated in the new study being reported. 
3.11 Standards for Analytic Approaches 
Although reporting standards are generally associated with entire research 
designs, sorne quantitative procedures (e.g., structural equation modeling, 
Bayesian techniques) are of sufficient complexity and open to such internal vari-
ation that additional information (beyond just the name of the technique and 
a few parameters) must be reported for readers to be able to fully comprehend 
the analysis. Other researchers may need additional information to evaluate the 
conclusions the authors have drawn or to replicate the analysis with their own 
data. Standard s for structural equation modeling and Bayesian techniques are 
on the JARS website (https://apastyle.apa.org/jars/quantitative). 
Structural Equation Modeling. Structural equation modeling is a family of statis-
tical techniques that involve the specification of a structural or measurement 
model. The analysis involves steps that estimate the effects represented in the 
model (parameters) and evaluate the extent of correspondence between the 
model and the data. These standards are complex and call for a comprehensive 
description of data preparation, specification of the initial model(s), estimation, 
model fit assessment, respecification of the model(s), and reporting of results. 
Bayesian Techniques. Bayesian techniques are inferential statistical procedures 
in which researchers estimate parameters of an underlying distribution on the 
basis of the observed distribution. These standard s are complex and address the 
needs of this analytic approach, including how to specif)r the model, describe 
and plot the distributions, describe the computation of the model, report any 
Bayes factors, and report Bayesian model averaging. 
3.12 Quantitative Meta-Analysis Standards 
Quantitative meta-analyses (see Section 1.5) have specific reporting standard s 
that are available in full on the JARS website (https://apastyle.apa.org/jars/ 
quant-table-9.pdf). These standards are specific to meta-analyses but can eas-
ily generalize to other quantitative research synthesis approaches. One feature 
of meta-analyses that makes them different (in reporting demands) from other 
study types is that the units of analysis are research reports-usually articles that 
have been published or archived. The primary featu

=== PAGE 113 ===
94 ~ JOURNAL ARTICLE REPORTING STANDARDS 
are specific reporting standards for qualitative research artieles, ineluding 
the Method (Section 3.14), Findings or Results (Section 3.15), and Discussion 
(Section 3.16) sections. Standards specific to quantitative and mixed methods 
research are presented in Sections 3.5 to 3.12 and 3.18, respectively. ' 
The basic expectations for reporting qualitative research are presented in 
Table 3.2. An additional table on the JARS website describes the reporting stan-
dards for qualitative meta-analyses (see Section 3.17). There are many qualita-
tive procedures and methods as well as many designs and approaches to inquiry 
in which they can be embedded; because of this variation, all the elements 
described in Table 3.2 and the guidelines in Sections 3.14 to 3.16 may not be 
appropriate for all qualitative studies. 
Authors must decide how sections should be organized within the context 
of their specific study. For example, qualitative researchers may combine the 
Results and Discussion sections because they may not find it possible to separate 
a given finding from its interpreted meaning within a broader contexto Qualita-
tive researchers may also use headings that reflect the values in their tradition 
(such as "Findings" instead of"Results") and omit ones that do noto As long as the 
necessary information is present, the paper do es not need to be segmented into 
the same sections and subsections as a quantitative papero 
Qualitative papers may appear different from quantitative papers because 
they tend to be longer. This added length is due to the following central features 
of qualitative reporting: (a) In place of referencing statistical analyses, researchers 
must inelude detailed rationales and procedural descriptions to explain how an 
analytic method was selected, applied, and adapted to fit each specific question 
or context; (b) researchers must inelude a discussion of their own backgrounds 
and beliefs and how they managed them throughout the study; and (c) research-
ers must show how they moved from their raw data to develop findings by add-
ing quoted materials or other demonstrative evidence into their presentation 
of results. Because qualitative artieles need to be lengthier to provide the infor-
mation necessary to support an adequate review, limitations on length should 
be more flexible than they are for quantitative artieles, which may not need to 
inelude this information. When journal page li

=== PAGE 114 ===
Reporting Standards for Qualitative Research 
C\.v 
95 
. Table 3.2 Qualitative Design Reporting Standards (JARS-Qual) 
Title Page 
Title 
Identify key issues/topic underconsideration. 
Author Note 
o 
Acknowledge funding sources or contributors. 
o 
Acknowledge conflicts of interest, if any. 
Abstract 
Sta te the problem/question/objectives under investigation. 
Indicate the study design, including types of participants or data sources, analytic strategy, main results/ 
findings, and main implications/significance. 
Identify five keywords. 
Guidance for Authors 
-
Consider including at least one keyword that describes the method and one that describes the types 
of participants or phenomena under investigation. 
-
Consider describing your approach to inquiry when it will facilitate the review process and intelligibility 
of your papero If your work is not grounded in a specific approach to inquiry or your approach would 
be too complicated to explain in the allotted word count, however, it would not be advisable to pro-
vide explication on this point in the abstracto 
Introduction 
Description of Research Problem or Question 
o 
Frame the problem or question and its contexto 
o 
Review, critique, and synthesize the applicable literature to identify key issues/debates/theoretical frame-
works in the relevant literature to clarify barriers, knowledge gaps, or practical needs. 
Guidance for Reviewers 
-
The introduction may include case examples, personal narratives, vignettes, or other illustrative material. 
5tudy Objectives/ Aims/Research Goals 
o 
State the purpose(s)/goal(s)/aim(s) of the study. 
State the target audience, if specific. 
o 
Provide the rationale for fit of design used to investigate this purpose/goal (e.g., theory building, explana-
tory, developing understanding, social action, description, highlighting social practices). 
o 
Describe the approach to inquiry, if it illuminates the objectives and research rationale (e.g., descriptive, inter-
pretive, feminist, psychoanalytic, postpositivist, critical, postmodern, constructivist, or pragmatic approaches). 
Guidance for Authors 
-
If relevant to objectives, explain the relation of the current analysis to prior articles/publications. 
Guidance for Reviewers 
-
Oualitative studies often legitimately need to be divided into multiple manuscripts beca use of journal 
article page limitations, but each manuscript should have a separate focus. 
-
Oualitative studies tend not to identify hypothese

=== PAGE 115 ===
96 
C\.v 
JOURNAL ARTICLE REPORTING STANDARDS 
Table 3.2 Qualitative Design Reporting Standards (JARS-Qual) (continued) 
Method (continued) 
-
At times, elements may be relevant to multiple sections and authors need to organize what'belongs in 
each subsection in order to describe the methüd coherently and reduce redundancy. For instance, the 
overview and the objectives statement may be presented in one section. 
-
Processes of qualitative research are often iterative versus linear, may evolve through the inquiry 
process, and may move between data collection and analysis in multiple formats. As a result, data 
collection and analysis sections might be combined. 
-
For the reasons stated previously and because qualitative methods often are adapted and combined 
creatively, requiring detailed description and rationale, an average qualitative Method section typically 
is longer than an average quantitative Method section. 
Study Participants or Data Sources 
RESEARCHER DESCRIPTION 
Describe the researchers' backgrounds in approaching the study, emphasizing their prior understandings 
of the phenomena under study (e.g., interviewers, analysts, or research team). 
• 
Describe how prior understandings of the phenomena under study were managed and/or influenced the 
research (e.g., enhancing, limiting, or structuring data collection and analysis). 
Guidance for Authors 
-
Prior understandings relevant to the analysis could inelude, but are not limited to, descriptions of 
researchers' demographic/cultural characteristics, credentials, experience with phenomena, training, 
values, and/or decisions in selecting archives or material to analyze. 
Guidance for Reviewers 
-
Researchers differ in the extensiveness of reflexive self-description in reports. It may not be possible for 
authors to estimate the depth of description desired by reviewers without guidance. 
PARTICIPANTS OR OTHER DATA SOURCES 
• 
Provide the numbers of participants/documents/events analyzed. 
• 
Describe the demographics/cultural information, perspectives of participants, or characteristics of data 
sources that might influence the data collected. 
Describe existing data sources, if relevant (e.g., newspapers, internet, archive). 
Provide data repository information for openly shared data, if applicable. 
Describe archival searches or process of locating data for analyses, if applicable. 
RESEARCHER-PARTICIPANT RELATIONSHIP 
Describe the relationships and interactions between researchers and p

=== PAGE 116 ===
Reporting Standards for Qua litative Research 
C\.v 
97 
. Table 3.2 Qualitative Design Reporting Standards (JARS-Qual) (continued) 
Method (contir:ued) 
PARTICIPANT SELECTION 
Describe the participantldata source selection process (e.g., purposive sampling methods, such as 
maximum variation; convenience sampling methods, such as snowball selection; theoretical sampling; 
diversity sampling) and inclusion/exclusion criteria. 
Provide the general context for the study (when data were collected, sites of data collection). 
If your participant selection is from an archived data set, describe the recruitment and selection process 
from that data set as well as any decisions in selecting sets of particípants from that data seto 
Guidance for Authors 
-
A statement can clarify how the number of particípants fits with practices in the design at hand, rec-
ognizing that transferability of findings in qualitative research to other contexts is based in developing 
deep and contextualized understandings that can be applied by readers rather than quantitative 
estimates of error and generalízations to populations. 
Guidance for Authors/Reviewers 
-
The order of the recruitment process and the selection process and their contents may be determined 
in relation to the authors' methodological approach. Some authors will determine a selection process 
and then develop a recruitment method based on those criteria. Other authors will develop a recruit-
ment process and then select participants responsively in relation to evolving findings. 
Data Collection 
DATA-COLLECTION OR IDENTIFICATION PROCEDURES 
State the form of data collected (e.g., interviews, questionnaires, media, observation). 
Describe the origins or evolution of the data-collection protocol. 
Describe any alterations of data-collection strategy in response to the evolving findings or the study 
rationale. 
Describe the data-selection or data-co llection process (e.g., were others present when data were 
collected, number of times data were callected, duration of callection, context). 
Convey the extensiveness of engagement (e.g., depth of engagement, time intensiveness of data 
collection). 
For interview and written studies, indicate the mean and range of the time duration in the data-collection 
process (e.g., interviews were held for 75 to 110 min, with an average interview time of 90 min). 
Describe the management or use of reflexivity in the data-collection process, as it illuminates the study. 
Describ

=== PAGE 117 ===
98 
~ JOURNAL ARTICLE REPORTING STANDARDS 
Table 3.2 Qualitative Design Reporting Standards (JARS-Qual) (continued) 
Method (continued) 
Describe the process of arriving at an analytic scheme, if applicable (e.g., if one was developed before or 
during the analysis or was emergent throughout)". 
Provide illustrations and descriptions of the analytic scheme development, if relevant. 
Indicate software, if used. 
Guidance for Authors 
-
Provide rationales to illuminate analytic choices in relation to the study goals. 
Guidance for Reviewers 
-
Researchers may use terms for data analysis that are coherent within their research approach and 
process (e.g., "interpretation," "unitization," "eidetic analysis," "coding"). Descriptions should be 
provided, however, in accessible terms in relation to the readership. 
METHODOLOGICAL INTEGRITY 
Demonstrate that the claims made from the analysis are warranted and have produced findings with meth-
odological integrity. The procedures that support methodological integrity (i.e., fidelity and utility) typically 
are described across the relevant sections of a paper, but they could be addressed in a separate section 
when elaboration or emphasis would be helpful. Issues of methodological integrity include the following: 
-
Assess the adequacy of the data in terms of the ability to capture forms of diversity most relevant to 
the question, research goals, and inquiry approach. 
-
Describe how the researchers' perspectives were managed in both the data collection and analysis 
(e.g., to limit their effect on the data collection, to structure the analysis). 
-
Demonstrate that findings are grounded in the evidence (e.g., using quotes, excerpts, or descriptions 
of researchers' engagement in data collection). 
-
Demonstrate that the contributions are insightful and meaningful (e.g., in relation to the current litera-
ture and the study goal). 
-
Provide relevant contextual information for findings (e.g., setting of study, information about partici-
pants, interview question asked is presented before excerpt as needed). 
-
Present findings in a coherent manner that makes sense of contradictions or disconfirming evidence in 
the data (e.g., reconcile discrepancies, describe why a conflict might exist in the findings). 
Demonstrate consistency with regard to the analytic processes (e.g., analysts may use demonstrations of 
analyses to support consistency, describe their development of a stable perspective, interrater reliability

=== PAGE 118 ===
Reporting Standards for Qualitative Research 
~ 99 
, Table 3.2 Qualitative Design Reporting Stan'dards (JARS-Qual) (continued) 
Findings/Results 
Findings/Results Subsections 
o 
Present research findings in a way that is compatible with the study designo 
o 
Present synthesizing illustration's (e.g ., diagrams, tables, models), if useful in organizing and conveying 
findings. Photographs or links to videos can be used. 
Guidance for Authors 
-
Findings presented in an artistic manner (e.g., a link to a dramatic presentation of findings) should also 
indude information in the reporting standards to support the research presentation. 
-
Use quotes or excerpts to augment data description (e.g., thick, evoca ti ve description, field notes, text 
excerpts), but these should not replace the description of the findings of the analysis. 
Guidance for Reviewers 
-
The Findings section tends to be longer than in quantitative papers because of the demonstrative 
rhetoric needed to permit the evaluation of the analytic procedure. 
-
Depending on the approach to inquiry, findings and discussion may be combined or a personalized 
discursive style might be used to portray the researchers' involvement in the analysis. 
-
Findings mayor may not indude quantified information, depending upon the study's goals, approach 
to inquiry, and study characteristics. 
I Discussion 
Discussion Subsections 
o 
Describe the central contributions and their significance in advancing disciplinary understandings. 
o 
Describe the types of contributions made by findings (e.g., challenging, elaborating on, and supporting 
prior research or theory in the literature describing the relevance) and how findings can be best utilized. 
o 
Identify similarities and differences from prior theories and research findings. 
o 
Reflect on any alternative explanations of the findings. 
o 
Identify the study's strengths and limitations (e.g., consider how the quality, source, or types of the data 
or the analytic processes might support or weaken its methodological integrity). 
o 
Describe the limits of the scope of transferability (e.g., what readers should bear in mind when using 
findings across contexts). 
Revisit any ethical dilemmas or challenges that were encountered, and provide related suggestions for 
future researchers. 
o 
Consider the implications for future research, policy, or practice. 
Guidance for Reviewers 
-
Accounts could lead to multiple solutions rather than a single one. Many quali

=== PAGE 119 ===
100 
<O.v 
JOURNAL ARTICLE REPORTING STA NDARDS 
Qualitative researchers should report participant characteristics (listed in 
Section 3.6) and personal history factors (e.g., age, trauma exposure, abuse his-
tory, substance abuse history, family history, geographic history) that are rel-
evant to the specific contexts and topics of their research (see Morse, 2008). 
Certain characteristics hold influence across many spheres of participants' lives 
. within a given context and would be expected in most research reports; in the 
United States, these typically include age, gender, race, ethnicity, and socio-
economic status, but other features may be highly relevant as well to a given 
research question and context (e.g., sexual orientation, immigration status, dis-
ability). The descriptions of participant characteristics should be sensitive to the 
participants and the ways in which they understand and express their identities, 
statuses, histories, and so forth. Chapter 5 contains further guidance on writing 
about participant characteristics without bias. 
In addition to participant characteristics and personal history factors, other 
features within a study may influence the experience of a given phenomenon 
(e.g., psychotherapy orientation in research on psychotherapists, political party 
membership in a study on economic beliefs) and therefore are important to 
reporto The decision of which participant characteristics and features to report 
can be driven by a review of prior research, the researchers' experience with a 
phenomenon, pilot interviews, study goals, contextual dynamics, and empirical 
data that are analyzed as the data collection proceeds. In this way, reporting 
considerations may be experientially, theoretically, and empirically driven. 
Researcher-Participant Relationships. To increase transparency, describe the 
relationships and interactions between researchers and participants that are rel-
evant to the research process and any impact on the research process (e.g., any 
relationships prior to the study, any ethical considerations relevant to prior rela-
tionships). Existing relationships may be helpful (e.g., by increasing trust and facil-
itating disclosure) or harmful (e.g., by decreasing trust and inhibiting disclosure), 
so the specific dynamics of the relationships should be considered and reported. 
Participant Recruitment. There is no minimum number of participants for a 
qualitative study (see Levitt et al., 2017, for a dis

=== PAGE 120 ===
Reporting Standards for Qualitative Research 
~ 101 
'pants and parole officers). Provide details on any incentives or comperisation 
given to participants" and state relevant ethical pro ces ses of data collection 
and consent, potentially describing institutional review board approval, any 
adaptations for vulnerable populations, or safety monitoring practicés. Pres-
ent the process for determining the number of participants in relation to the 
study design (e.g., approaches to inquiry, data-collection strategies, data-
analytic strategies). Any changes in this number through attrition (e.g., refusal 
rates, reasons for dropout) and the final number of participants or sources 
should be conveyed, as should the rationale for decisions to halt data collection 
, (e.g., saturation). 
Participant Selection. To describe how participants were selected from within an 
identified group, explain any inclusion and/or exclusion criteria as well as the 
participant and/or data source selection process that was used. This selection 
process can consist of purposive sampling methods, such as maximum variation; 
convenience sampling methods, such as snowball selection; theoretical sampling; 
or diversity sampling. Provide the general context for your study (e.g., when data 
were collected, sites of data collection). If you selected participants from an 
archived data set, describe the recruitment and selection process for that data set 
and any decisions affecting the selection of participants from that data seto 
Data Colleetion. Researchers may use terms for data eollection that are coher-
ent with their research approach and process, su eh as "data identification," "col-
lection," or "selection." Descriptions should be provided, however, in terms that 
are accessible to readers. 
Data-Collection or Identification Procedures. In addition to describing the form 
of data collected (e.g., interviews, questionnaires, media, observation), con-
vey any alterations to the data-collection strategy (e.g., in response to evo lv-
ing findings or the study rationale). It may not be useful to reproduce all of the 
questions asked in an interview, especially in the case of unstructured or semi-
structured interviews in which questions are adapted to the content of each 
interview. The content of central or guiding questions should be communicated, 
however, and the format of the questions can be described (e.g., open questions, 
nonleading paraphrases, written prompts). Describe t

=== PAGE 121 ===
102 ~ JOURNAL ARTICLE REPO RTING STANDARDS 
Data-Analytic Strategies. Describe the methods and procedures of data analysis 
and the purpose or goal for which they were used. Explain in detail the pro-
cess of analysis. Describe the process of arriving at an analytic approach (e.g., 
whether a set of categories of coding was developed before or during the analy-
sis, whether findings emerged from an inductively driven process of analysis; see 
the glossary on the JARS website at https://apastyle.apa.org/jars/glossary). Also 
include a discussion of analytic procedures (e.g., coding, thematic analysis) and 
a description of coders or analysts and their training if not already described in 
the researcher description section. In this description, identif)r units of analysis 
(e.g., entire transcript, unit, text) and how units were formed, if applicable. Indi-
cate whether any categories or codes emerged from the analyses or were devel-
oped a priori, and outline the process used in each case. Provide illustrations 
and descriptions of their development, if relevant. Indicate software, if used. 
Methodological Integrity. Highlight procedures that support methodological 
integrity throughout the paper or summarize central points in a separate sec-
tion ofthe Method section when elaboration or emphasis would be helpful (for 
more on methodological integrity, see Levitt et al., 2017, and the glossary on the 
JARS website at https://apastyle.apa.org/jars/glossary). Demonstrate that the 
claims made from the analysis are warranted. Highlight key features of method-
ological integrity, as foHows: 
• adequacy: Assess the adequacy of the data in terms of their ability to capture 
forms of diversity most relevant to the research questions, research goals, 
and inquiry approach. 
• researchers' perspectives: Describe how the researchers' perspectives were 
managed in both the data coHection and the analysis (e.g., to limit their effect 
on the data coHection, to structure the analysis). 
• groundedness: Demonstrate that findings are grounded in the evidence (e.g., 
using quotes, excerpts, or descriptions of researchers' engagement in data 
coHection). 
• meaningfulness: Demonstrate that the contributions are insightful and 
meaningful (e.g., in relation to the current literature and the study goals). 
• context: Provide relevant contextual information for findings (e.g., setting 
of the study, information about participants; present the interview question 
asked before 

=== PAGE 122 ===
Reporting Standards for Oualitative Research 
~ 103 
rity. The following are examples of supplemental checks that can strengthen the 
research: 
• transcripts or data returned to participants for feedback; 
• triangulation acrass multiple sources of information, findings, or investigators; 
• checks on interview thoraughness or interviewer demands; 
• consensus or auditing processes; 
• member checks or participant feedback on findings; 
• data displays or matrices; 
• in-depth thick description, case examples, and illustrations; 
• structured methods of researcher reflexivity (e.g., memos, field notes, log-
books, diaries, journals, bracketing); and 
• checks on the utility of findings in responding to the study problem (e.g., 
evaluation ofwhether a solution worked). 
3.15 Qualitative Findings or Results Standards 
In qualitative research papers, findings may or may not include quantified infor-
mation, depending on the study's goals, approach to inquiry, and study char-
acteristics. Note that the heading "Findings" may be used rather than "Results." 
Descriptions of Both the Development of Findings and the Findings Them-
selves. Describe research findings (e.g., themes, categories, narratives) and the 
meaning and understandings that the researchers derived from the data analy-
sis in relation to the purpose of the study. Descriptions of results often include 
quotes, evidence, or excerpts that demonstrate the pracess of data analysis and 
of reaching findings (e.g., thick, evocative description; field notes; text excerpts). 
These should not replace the description of the findings of the analysis, how-
ever. Instead, balance these illustrations with text descriptions that make clear 
the meanings drawn fram individual quotes or excerpts and how they answer 
the study question. 
Compatibility With Study pesign. Findings should be presented in a manner 
that is compatible with the study designo For instance, findings of a graunded 
theory study might be described using categories organized in a hierarchical 
form and marked by discrete divisions, whereas findings of an ethnographic 
study might be written in a chronological narrative formato Also, findings should 
be written in a style that is coherent with the approach to inquiry used. 
Depictions of Findings. Qualitative findings can be presented in various ways. 
Illustrations (e.g., diagrams, tables, models; see Chapter 7) may be used to orga-
nize and convey findings. Photographs or links to videos 

=== PAGE 123 ===
104 ~ JOURNAL ARTICLE REPORTING STANDARDS 
takes into account the limitations of the study as weIl as plausible alternative 
explanations. The Discussion section conveys applications of your findings and 
provides directions for future investigators. IEyou present multiple studies, dis-
cuss the findings in the order in which they are presented within the paper. 
Interpreting the Meaning ofYour Findings. Instead of simply restating results, 
a good Discussion section develops readers' understanding of the issues at hand. 
To do this, describe the central contributions of your research and their sig-
nificance in advancing disciplinary understandings. Identifying similarities and 
differences from prior theories and research findings will help in this process. 
Describe the contributions the findings make (e.g., elaborating on, chaIlenging, 
or supporting prior research or theory) and how findings can be best utilized. 
Reflect on any alternative explanations of the findings to clarify the strengths and 
weaknesses of the explanation that you selected. More than one valid or useful 
set of findings may emerge fram a given data seto It is not considered a drawback 
for there to be more than one possible interpretation because researchers may 
centralize different processes or perspectives; however, findings should remain 
grounded in the empirical analysis of the data. 
Limitations and Strengths. Include a subsection to identify the strengths and 
limitations of the study (e.g., consider how the quality, source, or types of data 
or the analytic processes might support or weaken the study's methodological 
integrity, reliability, or validity). Within this subsection, describe the limits of 
the scope of generalizability or transferability (e.g., issues readers should con-
sider when using findings across contexts). 
Study Implications. Convey to readers how your findings might be used and 
their implications. In this process, you might outline emerging research ques-
tions, theoretical insights, new understandings, or methodological designs that 
advantage the conceptualization, implementation, review, or reporting of future 
studies. In addition, implications for policy, clinical practice, and advocacy can 
be communicated to assist readers in implementing your findings. 
3.17 Qualitative Meta-Analysis Standards 
Qualitative meta-analyses (see Section 1.5) have unique reporting standards 
that are available in fuIl on the JARS website (https://apastyle.apa.

=== PAGE 124 ===
Reporting Standards for Mixed Methods Research 
~ 105 
enhance their fidelity to the findings by considering the contradictions and 
ambiguities within and across studies. 
Reporting Situatedness. Another factor that distihguishes qualitative meta-
analyses from primary qualitative analyses is that they often include an exam-
ination of the situatedness of the authors of the primary studies reviewed (e.g., 
the perspectives of the primary researchers as well as their social positions and 
contexts and their studies' reflection ofthese perspectives). Situatedness can be 
considered in the Findings/Results or Discussion section and may be presented 
narratively or in tables when simplifying the presentation of trends. See the 
. online table for complete information on reporting qualitative meta-analyses. 
Reporting Standards for Mixed Methods Research 
3.18 Basic Expectations for Mixed Methods Research Reporting 
Whereas standards for reporting information in the abstract and introduction 
of a paper are common to all kinds of research (see Sections 3.3-3.4), there are 
specific reporting standards for mixed methods research articles. The basic 
expectations for reporting mixed methods research are presented in Table 3.3. 
Standards specific to quantitative and qualitative research are presented in Sec-
tions 3.5 to 3.12 and 3.13 to 3.17, respectively. 
The inherent assumption of mixed methods research is that the combined 
qualitative findings and quantitative results lead to additional insights not gleaned 
from the qualitative or quantitative findings alone (Creswell, 2015; Greene, 2007; 
Tashakkori & Teddlie, 2010). In mixed methods research, the thoughtful integra-
tion of qualitative findings and quantitative results leads to a deeper understand-
ing of the data and enhanced insights. In addition, authors can publish multiple 
papers from a single mixed methods study, such as a qualitative study paper, a 
quantitative study paper, and a mixed methods overview papero 
Incorporating Both Quantitative and Qualitative Standards. The thoughtful 
and robust use of mixed methods requires researchers to meet the standards 
of both quantitative and qualitative research methodology in the design, imple-
mentation, and reporting stages. To this end, various mixed methods designs 
have emerged in the literature (Creswell & Plano Clark, 2017), and they help 
inform the procedures used in reporting studies (e.g., convergent design, explor-
atory sequential design, 

=== PAGE 125 ===
106 
~ JOURNAL ARTICLE REPORTING STANDARDS 
Table 3.3 Mixed Methods Design Reporting Standards (JARS-Mixed) 
I 
Title Page 
Title 
• 
See the JARS-Quant and JARS-Qual Standards (Tables 3.1-3.2). 
Guidance for Authors 
-
Refrain from using words that are either qualitative (e.g., "explore," "understand") or quantitative 
(e.g., "determinants," "correlates") beca use mixed methods stands in the middle between qualitative 
and quantitative research. 
-
Reference the mixed methods, qualitative methods, and quantitative methods used. 
Author Note 
See the JARS-Quant and JARS-Qual Standards (Tables 3.1-3.2). 
Abstract 
• 
See the JARS-Quant and JARS-Qual Standards (Tables 3.1-3.2). 
• 
Indicate the mixed methods design, including types of participants or data sources, analytic strategy, 
main resultslfindings, and major implications/significance. 
Guidance for Authors 
-
Specify the type of mixed methods design used. See the note on types of designs in the Research 
Design Overview section of this table. 
Consider using one keyword that describes the type of mixed methods design and one that describes 
the problem addressed. 
Describe your approach(es) to inquiry and, if relevant, how intersecting approaches to inquiry are 
combined when this description will facilitate the review process and intelligibility of your papero If your 
work is not grounded in a specific approach(es) to inquiry or your approach would be too complicated 
to explain in the allotted word count, however, it would not be advisable to provide explication on this 
point in the abstracto 
Introduction 
Description of Research Problems/Questions 
• 
See the JARS-Quant and JARS-Qual Standards (Tables 3.1-3.2). 
Guidance for Authors 
-
This section may convey barriers in the literature that suggest a need for both qualitative and quantita-
ti ve data. 
Guidance for Reviewers 
-
Theory or conceptual framework use in mixed methods varies depending on the specific mixed 
methods design or procedures used. Theory may be used inductively or deductively (or both) in 
mixed methods research. 
5tudy Objectives/ Aims/Research Goals 
See the JARS-Quant and JARS-Qual Standards (Tables 3.1-3.2). 
State three types of research objectives/aims/goals: qualitative, quantitative, and mixed methods. Order 
these goals to reflect the type of mixed methods design used. 
Describe the ways approaches to inquiry were combined, as it illuminates the objectives and mixed 
methods rationale (e.g., descriptive, interpret

=== PAGE 126 ===
Reporting Standards for Mixed Methods Research 
C\Y 
107 
,Table 3.3 Mixed Methods Design.Reporting Standards (JARS-Mixed) (continued) 
Method 
Research Design Overvlew 
See the JARS-Quant and JARS:-Qual Standards (Tables 3,1-3.2). 
Explain why mixed methods research is appropriate as a methodology given the paper's goals. 
• 
Identify the type of mixed methods design used and define it. 
Indicate the qualitative approach to inquiry and the quantitative design used within the mixed methods 
design type (e.g., ethnography, randomized experiment). 
• 
If multiple approaches to inquiry were combined, describe how this was done and provide a rationale 
(e.g., descriptive, interpretive, feminist, psychoanalytic, postpositivist, critical, postmodern, constructivist, 
or pragmatic approaches), as it illuminates the mixed method in use. 
• 
Provide a rationale or justification for the need to collect both qualitative and quantitative data and the 
added value of integrating the results (findings) from the two data sets. 
Guidance for Reviewers 
-
Because mixed methods research is a relatively new methodology, it is helpful to provide a definition 
of it from a major reference in the field. 
Mixed methods research involves rigorous methods, both qualitative and quantitative. Refer to the 
qualitative and quantitative standards for details of rigor, 
One of the most widely discussed topics in the mixed methods literature would be research designs. 
There is not a generic mixed methods design but rather multiple types of designs. Basic, core designs 
inelude convergent design, explanatory sequential design, and exploratory sequential designo Although 
the na mes and types of designs may differ among mixed methods writers, a common understanding 
is that the procedures for conducting a mixed methods study may differ from one project to another. 
Further, these basic procedures can be expanded by linking mixed methods to other designs (e.g., an 
intervention or experimental trial mixed methods study), to theories or standpoints (e.g., a feminist mixed 
methods study), or to other methodologies (e.g., a participatory action research mixed methods study). 
PARTICIPANTS OR OTHER DATA SOURCES 
• 
See the JARS-Quant and JARS-Qual Standards (Tables 3.1-3.2). 
• 
When data are collected from multiple sources, elearly identify the sources of qualitative and quantitative 
data (e.g., participants, text), their characteristics, and the relationship between the data sets, if ther

=== PAGE 127 ===
108 
C\.v 
JOURNAL ARTICLE REPORTING STANDARDS 
Table 3.3 Mixed Methods Design Reporting Standards (JARS-Mixed) (continued) 
: Method (continued) 
Participant Recruitment 
PARTICIPANT SAMPLlNG OR SELECTION 
See the JARS-Quant and JARS-Qual Standards (Tables 3.1-3.2). 
Describe the qualitative and the quantitative sampling in separate sections. 
Relate the order of the sections to the procedures used in the mixed methods design type. 
PARTICIPANT RECRUITMENT 
See the JARS-Quant and JARS-Qual Standards (Tables 3.1-3.2). 
Discuss the recruitment strategy for qualitative and quantitative research separately. 
Data Collection 
DATA-COLLECTION/IDENTIFICATION PROCEDURES 
See the JARS-Quant and JARS-Qual Standards (Tables 3.1-3.2). 
RECORDING AND TRANSFORMING THE DATA 
See the JARS-Qual Standards (Table 3.2). 
Data Analysis 
See the JARS-Quant and JARS-Qual Standards (Tables 3.1-3.2). 
Devote separate sections to the qualitative data analysis, the quantitative data analysis, and the mixed 
methods analysis. This mixed methods analysis consists of ways that the quantitative and qualitative 
results were "mixed" or integrated according to the type of mixed methods design used (e.g., merged in 
a convergent design, connected in explanatory sequential designs and in exploratory sequential designs). 
Validity, Reliability, and Methodological Integrity 
• 
See the JARS-Quant and JARS-Qual Standards (Tables 3.1-3.2). 
Indicate methodological integrity, quantitative validity and reliability, and mixed methods validity or 
legitimacy. Further assessments of mixed methods integrity are also indicated to show the quality of the 
research process and the inferences drawn from the intersection of the quantitative and qualitative data. 
I Findings/Results 
Findings/Results Subsections 
See the JARS-Quant and JARS-Qual Standards (Tables 3.1-3.2). 
Indicate how the qualitative and quantitative results were "mixed" or integrated (e.g., discussion; tables of 
joint displays; graphs; data transformation in which one form of data is transformed to the other, su eh as 
qualitative text, codes, or themes transformed into quantitative counts or variables). 
Guidance for Authors 
-
In mixed methods research, the Findings section typically ineludes sections on qualitative findings, 
quantitative results, and mixed methods results. This seetion should mirror the type of mixed methods 
design in terms of sequence (i.e., whether quantitative strand or qualitative strand comes first; if both 

=== PAGE 129 ===
Contents 
EFFECTIVE SCHOLARLY WRITING 
Continuity and Flow 
4.1 Importance of Continuity and Flow 
111 
4.2 Transitions 
112 
4.3 Noun Strings 
112 
Conciseness and Clarity 
4.4 Importance of Conciseness and Clarity 
113 
4.5 Wordiness and Redundancy 
114 
4.6 Sentence and Paragraph Length 
115 
4.7 Tone 
115 
4.8 Contractions and Colloquialisms 
116 
4.9 Jargon 
116 
4.10 Logical Comparisons 
116 
4.11 Anthropomorphism 
117 
111 
111 
113 
GRAMMAR ANO USAGE 
117 
Verbs 
117 
4.12 Verb Tense 
117 
4.13 Active and Passive Voice 
118 
4.14 Mood 
119 
4.15 Subject and Verb Agreement 
119 
Pronouns 
120 
4.16 First- Versus Third-Person Pronouns 
120 
4.17 Editorial "We" 
120 
4.18 Singular "They" 
120 
4.19 Pronouns for People and Animals ("Who" vs. "That") 
121 
4.20 Pronouns as Subjects and Objects ("Who" vs. "Whom") 
122 
4.21 Pronouns in Restrictive and Nonrestrictive Clauses 
("That" vs. "Which") 
122 
Sentence Construction 
4.22 Subordinate Conjunctions 
123 
4.23 Misplaced and Dangling Modifiers 
123 
4.24 Parallel Construction 
124 
Strategies to Improve Your Writing 
4.25 Reading to Learn Through Example 
126 
4.26 Writing From an Outline 
126 
4.27 Rereading the Draft 
126 
4.28 Seeking Help From Colleagues 
126 
4.29 Working With Copyeditors and Writing Centers 
126 
4.30 Revising a Paper 
127 
123 
12~ 


=== PAGE 130 ===
4 
WRITING STYLE ANO 
GRAMMAR 
The main objective of scholarly writing is clear communication, which can be 
achieved by presenting ideas in an orderly and concise manner. Establishing a 
tone that conveys the essential points of your work in an interesting way will 
engage readers and communicate your ideas effectively. Precise, clear word 
choice and sentence structure also contribute to the creation of a substantive, 
impactful work. 
In this chapter, we provide guidance on achieving the four qualities of effec-
tive scholarly writing: continuity, flow, conciseness, and clarity. This is followed 
by general rules for grammar and usage and suggested strategies for improving 
your writing. 
Effective Scholarly Writing 
Being able to communicate ideas clearly and succinctly is a recipe for success for 
all writers, be they students submitting assignments to their instructor or profes-
sionals submitting manuscripts to a journal. Effective scholarly writing balances 
continuity and flow with conciseness and clarity. By implementing the tech-
niques and principies described in Sections 4.1 to 4.11, writers will improve these 
aspects of their communication and become more effective communicators. 
Continuity and Flow 
4.1 Importance of Continuity and Flow 
Effective writing is characterized by continuity, the logical consistency of expres-
sion throughout a written work, and by flow, the smooth cadence ofwords and 
sentences. Inconsistencies, contradictions, omissions, and irrelevancies in your 
111 


=== PAGE 131 ===
112 ~ WRITING STYLE AND GRAMMAR 
writing style and presentation of ideas can make your arguments seem less 
credible. A work that lacks continuity and flow may seem disorganized or con-
fusing, and details may seem incomplete or inconsistent. Readers will better 
understand your ideas if you aim for continuity in words, concepts, and the-
matic development fram the opening statement to the conclusion. Explain rela-
tionships between ideas clearly, and present ideas in a logical order to imprave 
the readability of your papero 
4.2 Transitions 
To improve continuity and flow in your writing, check transitions between sen-
tences, paragraphs, and ideas to ensure that the text is smooth and clear rather 
than abrupt or disjointed. When editing your writing, use additional transi-
tional devices to make it less choppy. Text that sounds choppy or disjointed may 
indicate that you have abandoned an argument or theme prematurely-instead 
consider amplifying its discussion. 
Punctuation marks contribute to continuity and flow by signaling transitions 
and demonstrating relationships between ideas. They also reflect the pauses, 
inflections, subordination, and pacing normally heard in speech. Use the full 
range of punctuation. Neither overuse nor underuse one type of punctuation, 
such as commas or dashes: Overuse may annoy readers, whereas underuse may 
cause confusion. Instead, use punctuation to support meaning. 
Likewise, transitional words and phrases help maintain the flow of ideas, 
especially when the material is complex or abstracto For example, using a pro-
noun that refers to a noun in the preceding sentence not only serves as a transi-
tion but also avoids repetition. Be sure the referent is obvious. Other transitional 
words and phrases include the following: 
• time links (e.g., "then," "next," "after," "while," "since") 
• cause-effect links (e.g., "therefore," "consequentIy," "as a result") 
• addition links (e.g., "in addition," "moreover," "furthermore," "similarly") 
• contrast links (e.g., "but," "conversely," "nevertheless:' "however," "although") 
Use adverbs judiciously as introductory or transitional words (e.g., adverbs such 
as "certainly," "consequentIy," "conversely," "fortunatelY;' "importantly," "interest-
ingly," "more importantly," "regrettably," and "similarly"). Writers often overuse 
adverbs, so ask yourself whether the introduction or transition is needed. For 
example, both "importantly" and "interestingly" can often be recast 

=== PAGE 132 ===
Noun string 
skinfold test body fat percentage 
examination 
preliminary online collegiate 
instructional methods survey results 
Conciseness and Clarity 
Conciseness and Clarity 
C\v 
113 
Better sentence structure 
• 
a caliper examination to determine body fat 
percéntage 
• 
a skinfold test to determine body fat percentage 
• 
determination of body fat percentage using 
calipers to measure skinfold thickness 
• 
preliminary results of an online survey of collegiate 
instructional methods 
• 
preliminary results of an online survey to assess 
college students' preferred instructional methods 
I 
I 
4.4 Importance of Conciseness and Clarity 
Say only what needs to be said in your writing: The author who is more concise-
that is, more frugal with words-writes a more readable papero Authors seeking 
publication and students completing assignments increase their chances of suc-
cess when they write concisely. Likewise, writing that is clear and precise is 
more accurate and transparento In combination, conciseness and clarity in 
your writing ensure that readers understand your meaning. 
Sorne writers may fear that writing concisely will make their papers too short. 
However, adding extraneous material or "fluff" to make your paper longer will 
dilute its focus and meaning and will not improve your chances of publication 
or of getting a favorable grade. If your paper is too short when written concisely, 
your ideas and themes may need to be further developed to add substance. 
Where possible, tighten language to eliminate wordiness, redundancy (see 
Section 4.5), evasiveness, overuse of the passive voice, circumlocution, and 
clumsy prose. Shorten or eliminate overly detailed descriptions of equipment 
or apparatus, participants, or procedures (beyond those called for in journal 
article reporting standards; see Chapter 3); elaborations of the obvious; and 
irrelevant observations or asides. Information that would cause the paper to be 
too long and is not essential to understanding the research-but would none-
theless be helpful to a subset of readers-may be placed, when appropriate, in 
supplemental materials (see Section 2.15). 
Short words and short sentences are easier to comprehend than long ones 
(see Section 4.6). A long technical term, however, may be more precise thansev-
eral short words, and technical terms are inseparable from scientific reporting. 
However, a paper with too much jargon or terminology familiar to only a few 
specialists does n

=== PAGE 133 ===
114 ~ WRITING STYLE AND GRAMMAR 
is dear. Choose words and phrases carefully, and specifY the intended meaning 
if there is potential for ambiguity. 
If you use a word or phrase multiple times, do so consistently (e.g., do not 
switch between "participants il) the music condition" and "participants who 
heard the music while completing the task"- choose one presentation and use 
it consistently). Sorne writers deliberately use synonyms or near-synonyms 
to avoid repeating a word or phrase. The intention is commendable, but in 
practice the use of synonyms can lead to imprecision: By using synonyms, 
you may unintentionally suggest a subtle difference. Therefore, use synonyms 
with careo 
Word choice is especially important when talking about people who are 
members of specific groups, such as in a Method section. Carefully consider the 
descriptors you use, making sure they are accurate, consistent with current pre-
ferred terminology, and in line with how the individuals you are writing about . 
describe themselves. In no case should you use biased, pejorative, or demeaning 
language (see Chapter 5 for guidelines on using bias-free language). 
Strive for a professional tone and professionallanguage (see Sections 4.7-4.9). 
Avoid heavy alliteration, rhyming, poetic expressions, and clichés. Use meta-
phors sparingly; although they can help simplifY complicated ideas, metaphors 
can also be distracting or undear. Avoid mixed metaphors (e.g., "a theory rep-
resenting one branch of a growing body of evidence") and words with surplus 
or unintended meanings (e.g., "outstanding" for "remaining"), which may dis-
tract or mislead readers. Use figurative expressions with restraint and colorful 
expressions with care; because these expressions can be open to interpretation 
and even cultural differences, they generally do not add to understanding for 
all possible readers. Instead, make direct, logical comparisons (see Section 4.10) 
and dearly attribute actions (se e Section 4.11). 
4.5 Wordiness and Redundancy 
Wordiness can impede readers' understanding by forcing them to sort through 
unnecessary words to decipher your ideas. Unconstrained wordiness lapses 
into embellishment and flowery writing, which are inappropriate in academic 
style. Consider the following examples of wordy and concise language: 
Wordy 
Concise 
I 
at the present time 
now 
for the purpose of 
for, to 
there were several students who completed 
several students completed 
Whereas wordines

=== PAGE 134 ===
they were both alike 
a sum total 
four different groups saw 
were exactly the same as 
absolutely essential 
has been previously found 
small in size 
one and the same 
in close proximity to 
completely unanimous 
positioned very close 
period of time 
summarize briefly 
the reason is because 
4.6 Sentence and Paragraph Length 
Conciseness and Clarity 
~ 115 
There is no minimum or maximum sentence length in APA Style. Overuse of 
short, simple sentences produces choppy prose, however, and overuse of long, 
involved sentences results in difficult, sometimes incomprehensible, language. 
Varied sentence length helps readers maintain interest and comprehension. 
When involved concepts require long sentences, the components should pro-
ceed logically. Avoid including multiple ideas in a single sentence; instead, 
break the sentence into shorter ones. Direct, declarative sentences with simple, 
common words are usually best. 
Similar cautions apply to paragraph length. Single-sentence paragraphs are 
abrupt and should be used infrequently. Paragraphs that are too long (i.e., lon-
ger than one double-spaced manuscript page) risk losing readers' attention. A 
new paragraph signals a shift to a new idea and provides a pause for readers-a 
chance to assimilate one step in the conceptual development before beginning 
another. Look for a logical place (or places) to break up a long paragraph or 
reorganize the material. 
4.7 Tone 
Although scientific writing differs in form and content from creative or liter-
ary writing, it need not lack style or be dull. When writing a scholarly paper, 
keep in mind that scientific prose and creative or literary writing serve differ-
ent purposes. Devices that are often used in creative writing- for example, 
setting up ambiguity; inserting the unexpected; omitting the expected; and 
suddenly shifting the topic, tense, or person- do not support the objective 
of clear communication in scientific writing. Similarly, devices or embellish-
ments that attract attention to words and sounds instead of to ideas are inap-
propriate in scientific writing. 
Thus, when describing your research, present the ideas and findings in a 
direct, straightforward manner, while also aiming for an interesting and com-
pelling style- for example, by fully elaborating on an idea or concept (see Sec-
tion 4.2), making word choices that reflect your involvement with the problem 
(see Section 4.4), and varying sentence and paragraph lengths (see Section 4.6

=== PAGE 135 ===
116 ~ WRITING STYLE AND GRAMMAR 
example, your reader might be a researcher in a related field who is trying to 
keep abreast of the literature but is not familiar with the jargon or insider per-
spectives of your field. What would facilitate this reader's understanding of and 
appreciation for the importance.of your work? 
4.8 Contractions and Colloquialisms 
Avoid using contractions and colloquialisms, which detract from a profes-
sional tone in scholarly writing. Contractions-shortened forms of one or two 
words in which an apostrophe is used in place of missing letters-generally 
do not appear in scholarly writing because they convey an informal tone. To 
avoid contractions and improve your writing, evaluate words with apostrophes 
carefully. Except for cases noted, rewrite a word like "can't" into "cannot." Use 
apostrophes to indicate possession (e.g., "the student's work"), but remember 
that possessive pronouns do not include apostrophes (e.g., write "its purpose 
was" not "it's purpose was"). However, contractions can be appropriately used 
in sorne circumstances, such as in reproducing a direct quotation that con-
tains a contraction (e.g., when quoting a research participant, do not change 
a participant's use of "let's go" to "let us go"), referring to a contraction as a 
linguistic example (e.g., when discussing confusion of "who's" with "whose"), 
or referring to an idiom or common saying that contains a contraction (e.g., 
"yo u can"t take it with you"). 
Likewise, avoid colloquialisms, which are informal expressions used in every-
day speech and writing (e.g., "to write up" instead of"to report," "gonna" instead 
of"going to"). These expressions often diffuse meaning, as in the case of approxi-
mations of quantity; "quite a large part," "practically all;' and "very few" are inter-
preted differently by different readers or in different contexts. Approximations 
weaken statements, especially those describing empirical observations. Instead, 
use precise, scholarly language. 
4.9 Jargon 
Jargon is specialized terminology that is unfamiliar to those outside a specific 
group. Overuse of jargon, even in papers in which that vocabulary is relevant, 
hinders comprehension. Jargon also may be euphemistic if substituted for a 
familiar term (e.g., "period of economic adjustment" instead of "recession"), 
and you should avoid usingjargon in this way. Bureaucratic jargon has had the 
greatest publicity, but academic or scientific jargon may also grat

=== PAGE 136 ===
Verbs 
~ 117 
.ism is overlooked for the sake of brevity, as in "The responses of transgender 
participants were more positive than cisgender participants." One correct way 
to write this sentence would be "The responses of transgender participants 
were more positive than those of cisgender participants." Thoughtful atten-
tion to good sentence structure and word choice reduces the chance of this 
kind of ambiguity. 
4.11 Anthropomorphism 
Do not attribute human characteristics to animals or to inanimate sources-
doing so is called anthropomorphism. 
Correct 
Incorrect 
Rationale 
1 
Pairs of rats (cage mates) 
Rat couples (cage mates) 
"Rat couples" implies a misleading 
were allowed to forage 
were allowed to forage 
parallel between human romantic 
together. 
together. 
couples and pairs of rats. 
The theory addresses 
The theory concludes 
A theory might address, indicate, 
or present, but it is the researchers 
(not the theory itself) who 
conclude. 
Pair active verbs with human actors (e.g., write "we extrapolated the rate of 
change" rather than "the study extrapolated the rate of change"). However, 
many acceptabIe constructions in widespread use do not constitute anthro-
pomorphism because they do not impede understanding or misIead readers. 
When describing the content of different sections of a paper, you may write, 
for exampIe, "this section addresses" or "the chapter focuses on" as well as "in 
this section we address" or "in this chapter, we focus on" (see Section 6.3 for 
comma use with introductory phrases). Similarly, when describing the results 
of a study, you may write "the results suggest," "the data provide," "the research 
contributes," "the study found," and so forth. 
Determining what constitutes anthropomorphism can be challenging, and 
even distinguished scholars may disagree. In ambiguous cases, we recommend 
that authors keep the principIe of clear communication at the forefront of their 
word choice and sentence structure. 
Grammar and Usage 
Incorrect grammar and careIess construction of sentences distract readers, 
introduce ambiguity, and impede clear communication. The exampIes in this 
section represent common grammar and usage errors that often appear in 
papers submitted to journal editors and academic instructors. 
Verbs 
4.12 Verb Tense 
Verbs are vigorous, direct communicators. The past tense is appropriate when 
expressing an action or a condition that occurred at a specific, definite time in 


=== PAGE 137 ===
118 
~ WRITING STYLE AND GRAMMAR 
the past, such as when discussing another researcher's work. The present per-
fect tense is appropriate to express a past action or condition that did not occur 
at a specific, definite time or to describe an action beginning in the past and 
continuing to the presento 
Use verb tenses consistently, and stay within the chosen tense to ensure 
smooth expression. Sudden, unnecessary shifts in verb tense in the same para-
graph or in adjacent paragraphs may confuse readers. Use the verb tenses 
shown in Table 4.1 to report information in various parts of the papero 
4.13 Active and Passive Voice 
Voice describes the relationship between a verb and the subject and object asso-
ciated with it. In the active voice, the subject of a sentence is presented first, fol-
lowed by the verb and then the object of the verb (e.g., "students completed 
surveys"). In the passive voice, the object of the verb is presented first, followed by 
the verb (usually a form of "to be" + past participle + the word "by") and then the 
subject last (e.g., "surveys were completed by students"); sometimes, the subject 
is omitted altogether, resulting in confusion about who is performing the action. 
Choose voice carefully. Both the active and passive voices are permitted in 
APA Style, but many writers overuse the passive voice. Use the active voice as 
much as possible to create direct, clear, and concise sentences. For example, use 
the active voice to describe the actions of participants and others involved in 
your study (see Section 5.6), as in "the patients took the medication orally," not 
"the medication was taken orally by the patients." 
The passive voice is acceptable in expository writing when focusing on 
the object or recipient of the action rather than on the actor. For example, a 
description of the experimental setup in the Method section might read, "the 
speakers were attached to either side of the chair," which appropriately empha-
sizes the placement of the speakers, not who placed them. Similarly, "the tests 
were gathered promptly" emphasizes the importance of the tests and their 
timely collection. When it is important to know who performed the action, use 
the active voice. 
Table 4.1 Recommended Verb Tenses in APA Style Papers 
Paper section 
Recommended tense 
Example 
Literature review (or 
Past 
Quinn (2020) presented 
whenever discussing other 
Present perfect 
Since then, many investigators have 
researchers' work) 
used 


=== PAGE 138 ===
Verbs 
C\Y 
119 
·4.14 Mood 
Mood refers to the forin of a verb authors use to express their attitude toward 
what they are saying (e.g., whether they believe what they are saying or just 
wish it were true). Use the indicative mood to make factual statements (e.g., 
"we addressed," "the findings demonstrate"). Use the subjunctive mood only to 
describe conditions that are contrary to fact or improbable; do not use the sub-
junctive to describe simple conditions or contingencies. 
Correet 
If the campus were larger, we 
would have had access to 
more participants. 
Ineorreet 
If the campus was larger, we 
would have had access to more 
participants. 
Rationale 
The campus is not in fact 
larger; the writer is only 
wishing that this were so. 
Use the word "would" with careo "Would" can be used in the indicative mood to 
mean "habitually," as in "The child would walk about the classroom," or in the 
conditional mood to express a condition of action, as in "We would sign the 
letter if we could." Do not use "would" to hedge; for example, change "it would 
appear that" to "it appears that." 
4.15 Subject and Verb Agreement 
A verb must agree in number (i.e., singular or plural; see Section 6.11) with its 
subject, regardless of intervening phrases such as "together with," "including," 
"plus," and "as well as." 
Corred: The pereentage of correct responses, as well as the speed of the responses, 
increases with praetiee. 
Incorrect: The pereentage of eorrect responses, as we ll as the speed of the responses, 
increase with praetiee. 
Collective Nouns. Collective nouns (e.g., "series;' "set;' "faculty," "pair," "social 
media") can refer to several individuals or to a single unit. If the action of the 
verb applies to the group as a whole, treat the noun as singular and use a singu-
lar verbo If the action of the verb applies to members of the group as individuals, 
treat the noun as plural and use a plural verbo The context (i.e., your emphasis) 
determines whether the action applies to the group or to individuals. 
Singular in context: The number of people in the state is growing. 
A pair of animals was in ea eh eage. 
Plural in context: A number of people are watehing. 
A pair of animals were then yoked. 
Use of"None." The subject pronoun "none" can be singular or plural. When the 
noun that follows it is singular, use a singular verb; when the noun is plural, use 
a plural verbo 
Singular in context: None of the information was correcto 
Plural in context: 

=== PAGE 139 ===
120 ~ WRITING STYLE AND GRAMM A R 
Correct: Neither the participants nor the confederate was in the room. 
Neither the confederate nor the participants were in the room. 
Incorrect: Neither the participants nor the confederate were in the room. 
Pronouns 
4.16 First- Versus Third-Person Pronouns 
Pronouns replace nouns, and each pronoun should refer clearly to its anteced-
ent. To avoid ambiguity in attribution, use the first person rather than the third 
person when describing the work you did as part of your research and when 
expressing your own views. If you are writing a paper by yourself, use the pro-
noun ''1''; do not use the pronoun "we" to refer to yourself if you do not have 
coauthors (see also Section 4.17). Ifyou are writing a paper with coauthors, use 
the pronoun "we." Do not refer to yourself or your coauthors in the third person 
as "the author(s)" or "the researcher(s)." 
However, use the third person to refer to the specific contribution of a par-
ticular coauthor within a paper with multiple authors. In the following example, 
Sonia J. Cousteau is one of the authors of the paper: 
We assessed children's language abilities. Sonia J. Cousteau, who is a speech-Ianguage 
pathologist, trained all testers. 
Keep in mind that if you refer to coauthors by name in the text of your man-
uscript, you may need to mark out their names each time they appear if your 
paper is to undergo masked review (see Section 12.7). 
4.17 Editorial "We" 
Do not use "we" to refer to people in general, as in "We live on the same planet, 
but we rarely truly understand each other"; this use is called the editorial "we." 
It is especially important to avoid the editorial "we" in multiauthored papers 
because readers may wonder whether you are referring to all people, members 
of your professional group(s), or yourself and your coauthors. Substitute a more 
specific noun or clarif}' your usage. 
Correct: Psychological researchers typically study decision making in a laboratory setting. 
Incorrect: We typically study decision making in a laboratory setting. 
Sorne alternatives to "we" are "people," "humans," "researchers," "psychologists," 
"nurses," and so on. However, "we" is an appropriate and useful referent once a 
specific subject has been established. 
Correct: As nurses, we tend to rely on ... 
Incorrect: We tend to rely on . .. 
4.18 Singular "They" 
Writers should always use the singular "they" to refer to a person who uses "they" 
as their pronoun (see Secti

=== PAGE 140 ===
Pronouns 
C\v 
121 
. Dictionary (Merriam-Webster, n.d.-b). The use ofthe singular "they" is inclusive 
of all people, helps writers avoid making assumptions about gender, and is part 
of APA Style. 
When using the singular "they," use the forms "they," "them;' "their;' "theirs," 
and "themselves." The variant "themself" is also acceptable because the referent 
is clearly singular, although "themselves" is currently the more common usage. 
The following are examples of correct usage of the singular "they." 
Each participant turned in their questionnaire. 
Jamie shared their experiences as a genderqueer persono 
A child should learn to play by themselves [or themseln as well as with friends. 
Rowan, a transgender person, helped themselves [or themseln to the free coffee. 
Do not use "he" or "she" alone as a generic third-person pronoun. Use "he or 
she" and "she or he" sparingly, and ensure that these pronouns match the pro-
nouns of the people being described; if you do not know the pronouns used by 
the people being described, use "they" instead or rewrite the sentence. Do not 
use the combination forms "(s)he" and "s/he" or alternate "he" and "she" (unless 
you know that a person uses these forms); these choices may have uninten-
tional implications. For further discussion of gender and pronoun usage, see 
Section 5.5. 
Keep in mind that there are typically many possible ways to write a sentence. 
If the singular "they" as a generic third-person pronoun seems awkward or dis-
tracting, try one of the following strategies to rewrite the sentence. 
Strategy 
Gender neutral 
Gender biased 
Rephrasing 
When an individual attends 
When an individual attends 
psychotherapy, that person can improve 
psychotherapy, she can improve 
emotional regulation. 
emotional regulation. 
Therapy can help an individual improve 
emotional regulation. 
Using plural nouns or 
Therapists who are too much like their 
A therapist who is too much like 
plural pronouns 
clients can lose their objectivity. 
his client can lose his objectivity. 
Replacing the pronoun 
A researcher must apply for the grant by 
A researcher must apply for his 
with an article 
September 1. 
grant by September 1. 
Dropping the pronoun 
The researcher must avoid letting biases 
The researcher must avoid letting 
and expectations influence the interpreta-
her own biases and expectations 
tion of the results. 
influence the interpretation of 
the results. 
4.19 Pronouns for People and Animals ("Who" vs. "Th

=== PAGE 141 ===
122 
~ WRITING STYLE AND GRAMMAR 
The chimps were tested daily. Sheba was tested unrestrained in an open testing area, 
which was her usual context for training and testing. 
4.20 Pronouns as Subjects and Objects ("Who" vs. "Whom") 
Relative pronouns can be subjects or objects ofverbs or prepositions. Use "who" 
as the subject of a verb and "whom" as the object of a verb or a preposition. You 
can determine whether a pronoun is the subject or object of a verb by turning 
the subordinate clause around and substituting a personal pronoun. If you can 
substitute "he," "she;' or "they," then "who" is correcto In the following examples, 
"who" and its replacement personal pronoun are highlighted to show the substi-
tutions. The sentence with the substitution is a way to verify whether the origi-
nal sentence is correcto 
Use of "who" 
Original sentence 
Substitution sentence 
I 
Correct 
The participants who passed the 
They passed the exam and were 
exam were given course credit. 
given course credit. 
Incorrect 
Eligible participants were mothers, 
Eligible participants were mothers; 
each of who had a child under the 
each of they had a child under the 
age of 21 with cancer. 
age of 21 with cancer. 
Likewise, if you can substitute "him," "her," or "them," then "whom" is correcto 
Use of "whom" 
Original sentence 
Substitution sentence 
I 
Correct 
Eligible participants were mothers, 
Eligible participants were mothers; 
each of whom had a child under 
each of them had a child under the 
the age of 21 with cancer. 
age of 21 with cancer. 
Incorrect 
The participants whom passed the 
Them passed the exam and were 
exam were given course credit. 
given course credit. 
4.21 Pronouns in Restrictive and Nonrestrictive Clauses 
("That" vs. "Which") 
Relative pronouns (e.g., "who," "whom," "that," "which") introduce an element 
that is subordinate to the main clause of the sentence, and that subordinate 
clause may be either restrictive or nonrestrictive. 
Restrictive clauses- also called "that" clauses- are essential to the meaning of 
the sentence. Restrictive clauses are not set off with commas. 
Therapist self-disclosure that conflicts with the patient's story might hinder the thera-
peutic process. 
In the example, only self-disclosure that conflicts with the patient's story, not all 
self-disclosure, might hinder the therapeutic process. 
Nonrestrictive clauses- also called "which" clauses-add further information to 
the sentence but are not essential to its 

=== PAGE 142 ===
Sentence Construction 
~ 123 
, In the example, aH interviews were conducted at the offices, and aH offices pro-
vided suitable privacy. 
Although sorne writers use "which" for both restrictive and nonrestrictive 
clauses, APA Style reserves "which" for nonrestrictive clauses and "that" for 
restrictive clauses. Consistent use of "that" for restrictive clauses and "which" 
for nonrestrictive clauses will help make your writing clear and precise. 
Sentence Construction 
4.22 Subordinate Conjunctions 
Subordinate conjunctions (e.g., "since;' "while," "although," "because," "whereas"), 
like relative pronouns (see Sections 4.19-4.21), introduce subordinate clauses. 
Select these conjunctions with care; interchanging conjunctions with more 
than one meaning may reduce the precision of your writing. Although sorne 
writers use "while" and "since" when they do not refer strictly to time, restrict-
ing your use of "while" and "sine e" to their temporal meanings can be helpful 
to readers. 
"While" Versus ''Although,'' "Despite," ''And,'' or "But." U se "while" to link events 
occurring simultaneously. 
Individual goal striving in late adulthood may enrich life while reducing stagnation and 
boredom. 
Otherwise, use "although," "despite," "and," or "but" in place of "while." 
Precise: Although goal progress predicted well-being for all genders, the associations 
tended to be stronger for women . 
Goal progress predicted well-being for all genders, but the associations tended to be 
stronger for women. 
Imprecise: While goal progress predicted well-being for all genders, the associations 
tended to be stronger for women . 
"Since" Versus "Because." In cases where the meaning of "since" is ambiguous 
(it could be either "from a time in the past" or "because"), replace "sine e" with 
"because." If the meaning is not ambiguous, it is acceptable to use either "sine e" 
or "because" to mean "because." 
Precise: Participants were leaving beca use the light turned green. 
Imprecise: Participants were leaving since the light turned green. 
4.23 Misplaced and Dangling Modifiers 
An adjective or an adverb, whether a single word or a phrase, must clearly refer 
to the word that it modifies. Having modifiers without clear referents can make 
it hard for readers to foHow the logic of your sentence. 
Misplaced Modifiers. Because of their placement in a sentence, misplaced mod-
ifiers ambiguously or illogicaHy modify a word. Eliminate misplaced modifiers 
by placing an adjective 

=== PAGE 143 ===
124 
C\.v 
WRITING STYLE AND GRAMMAR 
Correct 
Incorrect 
Rationale 
Using this procedure, the investi-
The investigator tested 
The incorrect sentence 
gator tested the participants. 
the participants using this 
is unclear about whether 
The investigator tested the 
-procedure. 
the investigator or the 
participants who were using 
participants used this 
the procedure. 
procedure. 
On the basis of this assumption, we 
Based on this assumption, 
The incorrect construc-
developed a model . 
we developed a model. 
tion says, "we are based 
Based on this assumption, the 
on this assumption." 
model ... 
Many writers misplace the word "only." Place "only" next to the word or phrase 
it modifies. 
Correct 
These data provide only a 
partial answer. 
Incorrect 
These data only provide a 
partial answer. 
Rationale 
The answer is partial, 
not the providing of it. 
Squinting modifiers are a type of misplaced modifier. Because of their ambigu-
ous placement, they make it difficult to tell whether the modifier refers to the 
phrase before or after the modifier. 
Correct 
My comprehension is improved 
when I read slowly. 
Incorrect 
Reading books slowly 
improves my comprehension. 
Rationale 
It is unclear whether 
the reading or the 
improvement is slow. 
ˇ 
Dangling Modifiers. Dangling modifiers have no referent in the sentence. Many 
ofthese result from the use ofthe passive voice (see Section 4.13). You can avoid 
many dangling modifiers by writing in the active voice. 
Correct 
Incorrect 
Rationale 
Using this procedure, I tested the 
The participants were tested 
1, not the participants, 
participants. 
using this procedure. 
used the procedure. 
Armitage and Martinez (2017) found 
Congruent with other studies, 
The result, not 
that the treatment group performed 
Armitage and Martinez (2017) 
Armitage and Martinez, 
better, a result congruent with those 
found that the treatment 
is congruent. 
of other studies. 
group performed better. 
4.24 Parallel Construction 
To enhance readers' understanding, present parallel ideas in parallel or coordi-
nate formo Use parallel structure in compound sentences, series and lists (see 
Sections 6.49-6.52), and table stubs (se e Section 7.12). 
Repetition of Parallel Elements. Ensure that all elements of the parallelism are 
present before and after the coordinating conjunction (e.g., "and;' "but," "or;' 
"nor"). For example, if the first part of the clause is introduced by "that," the 
second part of the clause should b

=== PAGE 144 ===
Strategies to Improve Your Writing 
C\v 125 
Correct: Ford (2020) found that homework is positively related to achievement and that 
the association is strongerin middle and high school than in elementary schooL 
'ncorrect: Ford (2020) found that homework is positively related to achievement, and that 
the associationis stronger in middleand high school than in elementary school. 
Coordinating Conjunctions Used in Pairs. With coordinating conjunctions 
used in pairs ("between ... and," "both ... and," "neither . o o nor;' "either o o o or," 
"not only o .. but also"), place the first conjunction immediately before the first 
part of the parallelismo 
"Between" and ':4.ndo" 
Correct: We recorded the difference between the performance of participants who com-
pleted the first task and the performance of those who completed the second task. 
'ncorrect: We recorded the difference between the performance of participants who com-
pleted the first task and the second task. 
Correct: between 2.5 and 400 years old 
'ncorrect: between 2.5-4.0 years old 
"Both" and ':4.nd." 
Correct: The names were difficult both to pronounce and to spelL 
'ncorrect: The names were difficult both to pronounce as well as to spell. 
Never use "both" with "as well as": The resulting construction is redundanto 
"Neither" and "Nor"; "Either" and "Or." 
Correct: Neither the responses to the auditory stimuli nor the responses to the tactile 
stimuli were repeatedo 
'ncorrect: Neither the responses to the auditory stimuli nor to the tactile stimuli were 
repeatedo 
Correct: The respondents either gave the worst answer or gave the best answer. 
Correct: The respondents gave either the worst answer or the best answero 
'ncorrect: The respondents either gave the worst answer or the best answer. 
"Not On/y" and "But Alsoo" 
Correct: It is surprising not only that pencil-and-paper seo res predicted this result but 
also that all other predictors were less accurateo 
'ncorrect: It is not only surprising that pencil-and-paper scores predicted this result but 
also that all other predictors were less accurate. 
Elements in a Series. Elements in a series should also be parallel in formo 
Correct: The participants were told to make themselves comfortable, to read the instruc-
tions, and to ask about anything they did not understand. 
'ncorrect: The participants were told to make themselves comfortable, to read the instruc-
tions, and that they should ask about anything they did not understando 
Strate

=== PAGE 145 ===
126 ~ WRITING STYLE AND GRAMMAR 
4.25 Reading to Learn Through Example 
Reading is one of the most effective practices for authors to improve their writ-
ing because it enables them to learn thraugh example. For instanceˇ a student 
tasked with writing a literature review would benefit fram reading other litera-
. ture reviews (including the literature review sections oflonger works) to see the 
various ways in which information can be organized and discussed. Likewise, 
an author who needs to present complex statistical information in atable would 
benefit from seeing how other authors have organized similar information in 
their tables. Careful reading in your chosen area of study will help you learn 
about not only new developments in the field but also ways to effectively convey 
information on the page. 
4.26 Writing From an Outline 
Writing from an outline ensures that the flow of your paper reflects the logic of 
your research or ideas. Creating and using an outline helps you identify main 
ideas, define subordinate ideas, focus your writing, avoid tangential excursions, 
and find omissions. In the outline, you can also designate headings and subhead-
ings you will use in your paper (see Sections 2.26-2.27 for more on principIes 
of organization and levels of heading). Outlines can take many forms, including 
the traditional format with Roman numeral headings or a concept map. 
4.27 Rereading the Draft 
Rereading your own work after setting it aside for a few hours or days allows 
you to look at it fram a fresh perspective. Taking the further step of reading 
your paper aloud may reveal faults that you previously overlooked and may 
help strengthen the tone and style ofyour writing. You can also try reading the 
sections of your paper in reverse order- from the conclusion back to the intro-
duction-to ensure that you have set up arguments appropriately. Budget ample 
time when writing to allow yourself to take advantage of these strategies. 
4.28 Seeking Help From Colleagues 
After you have reread your draft, give a revised copy to a colleague-preferably 
a person who has published in or studied a related field but who is not familiar 
with your own work- for a critical review. Even better, get critiques from two 
colleagues, and you will have a trial run of a journal's review pracess. Students 
are also encouraged to solicit feedback fram their instructor and peers. 
4.29 Working With Copyeditors and Writing Centers 
Sorne writers, particularly new

=== PAGE 146 ===
Strategies to Improve Your Writing 
~ 127 
,4.30 Revising a Paper 
Revising a draft intoa polished paper takes time and effort. Writers should 
develop a revision plan. Itis best tostartwith the big picture and work down to 
the details. Consider the following broad questions when reviewing you'r paper: 
• Is the central point ot thesis of your paper clear? Do the arguments follow 
logically from the thesis? 
• Is the information well organized? 
• For students, does the draft meet the parameters of the assignment? If there 
is a rubric for the assignment, does the paper address each element of the 
rubric? 
• For authors seeking publication, do es the draft fit the journal style and for-
matting requirements (see Sections 12.2-12.4)? 
At the detaillevel, check sentences for correct grammar and usage (see Sections 
4.12-4.24). Also check for spelling and grammar errors using the automatic 
spell-check and grammar-check functions of your word-processing programo 
Although an electronic spell-check cannot take the place of careful proofread-
ing (because words spelled correctly may be used incorrectly), it willlessen the 
chances that typographical errors make their way into the published article or 
the submitted assignment. APA uses Merriam-Websters Dictionary and the APA 
Dictionary 01 Psychology as its authorities' on spelling (for additional information 
on spelling, see Sections 6.11-6.12). Grammar-check functions are useful for 
identifying problematic sentence structure. Keep in mind, however, that gram-
mar is complex and therefore grammar-checkers are not infallible. 
Although the Publication Manual addresses many aspects of grammar and 
usage, it focuses on the areas that are the most problematic for writers of schol-
arly work. For grammatical questions not addressed in the Publication Manual, 
consult a trusted grammar reference. 


=== PAGE 148 ===
Contents 
General Guidelines for Reducing Bias 
5.1 Describe at the Appropriate Level of Specificity 
132 
5.2 Be Sensitive to Labels 
133 
Reducing Bias by Topic 
5.3 Age 
135 
5.4 Disability 
136 
5.5 Gender 138 
5.6 Participation in Research 
141 
5.7 Racial and Ethnic Identity 142 
5.8 Sexual Orientation 
145 
5.9 Socioeconomic Status 
147 
5.10 Intersectionality 
148 
132 
135 


=== PAGE 149 ===
5 
BIAS-FREE LANGUAGE 
GUIDELINES 
Authors must strive to use language that is free of ~ias, meaning the implied 
or irrelevant evaluation of the group or graups they are writing about. As an 
organization, APA is committed to both the advancement of science and the 
fair treatment of individuals and groups. These principIes require that authors 
and students who use APA Style avoid perpetuating demeaning attitudes in 
their writing. It is unacceptable to use constructions that might imply preju-
dicial beliefs or perpetuate biased assumptions against persons on the basis of 
age, disability, gender, participation in research, racial or ethnic identity, sexual 
orientation, socioeconomic status, or sorne combination of these or other per-
sonal factors (e.g., marital status, immigration status, religion). lnstead, authors 
should use affirming and inclusive language. 
Long-standing cultural practice can exert a powerful influence over even the 
most conscientious writer. Just as you have learned to check what you write for 
spelling, grammar, and wordiness, practice rereading your work for preconcep-
tions about graups of people. Ask people fram the groups about which you are 
writing to read and comment on your material or consult self-advocacy graups 
to determine appropriate terminology. lf you work directly with participants, 
ask them what terms they use to describe themselves. Language changes over 
time, and it is important to use the terms that individuals and/or communities 
use to describe themselves, their experiences, and their practices. 
Sorne attempts to follow the guidelines in this chapter may result in wordi-
ness or clumsy prase. As always, good judgment is required-these are not rigid 
rules. lf your writing reflects respect for your participants and your readers, 
and if you write with appropriate specificity and precision, you contribute to 
the goal of accurate, unbiased communication. This chapter contains general 
guidelines for writing without bias that apply across a range of issues and addi-
tional guidelines that address specific topics, including age, disability, gender, 
participation in research, race and ethnicity, sexual orientation, socioeconomic 
131 


=== PAGE 150 ===
132 ~ BIAS-FREE LANGUAGE GUIDELlNES 
status, and intersectionality. Additional examples of bias-free language can be 
found on the APA Style website (https://apastyle.apa.org). 
General Guidelines for Reducing Bias 
5.1 Describe at the Appropriate Level of Specificity 
Precision is essential in scholarly writing; when you refer to a person or per-
sons, choose words that are accurate, clear, and free from bias or prejudicial 
connotations. Bias, like inaccurate or unclear language, can be a form of impre-
cision. For example, using "man" to refer to all human beings is not as accurate 
or inclusive as using the terms "individuals," "people," or "persons." 
Focus on Relevant Characteristics. Be mindful to describe only relevant char-
acteristics. Although it is possible to describe a person's age, disability, gender 
identity, participation in research, racial and ethnic identity, sexual orientation, 
socioeconomic status, or other characteristic without bias, it is not always nec-
essary to include all of this information in your report (for a more detailed dis-
cussion of participant characteristics to report in quantitative and qualitative 
studies, refer to Sections 3.6 and 3.14, respectively). For example, you would 
be unlikely to mention participants' sexual orientation in a study of cognition 
because sexual orientation is not relevant to cognition; however, you would 
likely mention participants' gender in a study of stereotype threat because gen-
der is relevant to the examination of stereotype threat. Furthermore, there may 
be multiple relevant characteristics to discuss; when this is the case, address the 
ways in which the characteristics intersect, as appropriate (see Section 5.10). 
Acknowledge Relevant Differences That Do Exist. Part of writing without bias 
is not only recognizing that differences should be mentioned only when rele-
vant but also acknowledging relevant differences when they do existo Evaluate 
the meaning of the word "difference" carefully in relation to the target popula-
tion, not the dominant group. For example, a researcher who wants to general-
ize the study results to people overall, or students overall, and so forth, should 
assess and report whether the sample studied is different from the target popu-
lation and, if so, describe how it is different. 
Be Appropriately Specific. Once you have determined which characteristics 
to describe, choose terms that are appropriately specific, which will depend on 
the resear

=== PAGE 151 ===
General Guidelines for Reducing Bias 
~ 133 
• When writing about age, exact ages or age ranges (e.g., 15-18 years old, 65-80 
years old) are more specific than broad categories (e.g., under 18 years old, 
over 65 years old; see Section 5.3). Also include the age mean and median in 
addition to the range of ages to increase the specificity of the reportiiJ.g. 
• When writing about disability, names of conditions (e.g., Alzheimer's disease) 
are more specific than categories of conditions (e.g., types of dementia) or 
general references such as "people with disabilities" (see Section 5.4). 
• When writing about gender identity, descriptors with modifiers (e.g., cisgen-
der women, transgender women) are more specific than descriptors without 
modifiers (e.g., women) or general nongendered terms (e.g., people, individ-
uals; see Section 5.5 for how to differentiate between gender and sex). 
• When writing about people who took part in research, terms that indicate 
the context of the research (e.g., patients, participants, clients) are more 
specific than general terms (e.g., people, children, women; see Section 5.6). 
• When writing about racial or ethnic groups, the nation or region of origin 
(e.g., Chinese Americans, Mexican Americans) is more specific than a gener-
alized origin (e.g., Asian Americans, Latin Americans; see Section 5.7). 
• When writing about sexual orientation, the names of people's orientations 
(e.g., lesbians, gay men, bisexual people, straight people) are more specific 
than broad group labels (e.g., gay; see Section 5.8). 
• When writing about soéioeconomic status, income ranges or specific des-
ignations (e.g., below the federal poverty threshold for a family of four) are 
more specific than generallabels (e.g., low income; see Section 5.9). 
5.2 Be Sensitive to Labels 
Respect the language people use to describe themselves; that is, call people 
what they call themselves. Accept that language changes with time and that 
individuals within groups sometimesdisagree about the designations they use. 
Make an effort to determine what is appropriate for your study or paper, par-
ticularly when these designations are debated within groups. You may need to 
ask your participants which designations they use and/or consult self-advocacy 
groups that represent these communities to research the issue if you are not 
working direcdy with participants. However, note that sorne individual s may 
use slurs or stigmatizing language to refer to the

=== PAGE 152 ===
134 
C\v 
BI AS-FRE E LA NGUA GE GUIDELlN ES 
mote a sense of unity and community (Solomon, 2012); use the label that 
the community uses, even when that label is adjectival (note, however, that 
not everyone who has hearing loss identifies as Deaf). In particular, the use 
of labels where disability is con cerned is evolving, and people may disagree 
about the preferred approach. When writing about disability, person-first . 
language (e.g., "a person with paraplegia" rather than "a paraplegic"), identity-
first language (e.g., "an autistic person" rather than "a person with autism"), 
or both may be acceptable depending on the group you are writing about 
(see Section 5.4). 
Provide Operational Definitions and Labels. If you provide operational 
definitions of groups early in your paper (e.g., "participants scoring a mini-
mum ofX on the Y scale constituted the high verbal group, and those scoring 
below X constituted the low verbal group"), the best practice is to describe 
participants thereafter in terms of the measures used to classify them (e.g., 
"the contrast for the high verbal group was statistically significant"), provided 
the terms are not inappropriate. A pejorative label should not be used in any 
formo Abbreviations or series labels for groups usually sacrifice clarity and 
may be problematic: "LDs" or "LD group" to describe people with specific 
learning difficulties is problematic; "HVAs" for "high verbal ability group" is 
difficult to decipher. "Group !\' is not problematic, but it is also not descrip-
tive. Instead, ensure that operational group labels are clear and appropriate 
(e.g., "group with dysgraphia"). 
Avoid False Hierarchies. Compare groups with careo Bias occurs when authors 
use one group (often their own group) as the standard against which others are 
judged (e.g., using citizens of the United States as the standard without speci-
fying why that group was chosen). For example, usage of "normal" may prompt 
readers to make the comparison with "abnormal," thus stigmatizing individu-
als with differences. Likewise, contrasting lesbians with "the general public" 
or "normal women" portrays lesbians as marginal to society. More appropriate 
comparison groups for lesbians might be straight individuals, straight women, 
or gay meno Use parallel designations for groups, especially when presenting 
racial and ethnic information (see Section 5.7). 
Be aware that the order of social group presentation may imply that the 
first-men

=== PAGE 153 ===
Reducing Bias by Topie 
5.3 Age 
Redueing Bias by Topie 
C\.V 
135 
Age should be reported as part of the description of participants in the' Method 
section. Be specific in providing age ranges, means, and medians (see also Sec-
tion 5.1). Avoid open-ended definitions such as "under 18 years" or "over 65 
years;' unless referring, for instance, to broad research study eligibility criteria. 
Terms for Different Age Groups. Different terms are used for individuals of dif-
ferent ages, and these terms are often gendered (see Section 5.5). Use the terms 
individuals use to self-describe, whether these are binary gender categories of 
boy-girl or man-woman or descriptive and possibly nonbinary categories of 
transgender, genderqueer, agender, or gender-fluid. 
o For an individual of any age, appropriate terms are "person," "individual;' 
and so on. In general, avoid using "males" and "females" as nouns; instead use 
"men" and "women" or other age-appropriate words (see Section 5.5). "Males" 
and "females" are appropriate when groups include individuals with a broad 
age range (e.g., "males" to describe a group that includes both boys and men). 
o For an individual aged 12 years and younger, appropriate terms are "infant" 
(for a very young child), "child," "girl," "boy," "transgender girl," "transgender 
boy," "gender-fluid child;' and so on. 
o For an individual aged 13 to 17 years, appropriate terms are "adolescent," 
"young person," "youth," "young woman," "young man," "female adolescent," 
"male adolescent," "agender adolescent," and so on. 
o For an individual aged 18 years and older, appropriate terms are "adult," 
"woman;' "man," "transgender man;' "trans man;' "transgender woman," "trans 
woman," "genderqueer adult," "cisgender adult," and so on. 
Terms for Older Adults. Older adults are a subgroup of adults, and the age groups 
of older adults may be described with adjectives. On first reference to a group of 
older people, be as specific as possible by including the age range, average age, 
and median age, when available. Terms such as "older persons," "older people," 
"older adults," "older patients," "older individuals," "persons 65 years and older," 
and "the older population" are preferred. Avoid using terms such as "seniors;' 
"elderlY;' "the aged;' "aging dependents;' and similar "othering" terms because 
they connote a stereotype and suggest that members of the group are not part 
of society but rather a group apart (see Lundebjerg et al., 201

=== PAGE 154 ===
136 
C\.\.> 
BIAS-FREE LANGUAGE GUIDELlNES 
tives, not as nouns (i.e., refer to "young-old individuals," not to "the young-old"). 
When contrasting older adults with adults of other ages, describe that other 
age group specifically (e.g., young adults vs.older adults, middle-aged adults 
vs. older adults). You can use decade-specific descriptors if desired (e.g., octo-
genarian, centenarian). Generational descriptors such as "baby boomers," "Gen 
. X," "millennials;' "centennials," "Gen Z," and so on should be used only when 
discussing studies related to the topic of generations. For more information 
on writing about age, see "Guidelines for the Evaluation of Dementia and Age-
Related Cognitive Change" (APA, 2012c) and "Guidelines for Psychological 
Practice With Older Adults" (APA, 2014). 
5.4 Disability 
Disability is a broad term that is defined in both legal and scientific ways and 
encompasses physical, psychological, intellectual, and socioemotional impair-
ments (World Health Organization, 2001, 2011). The members of sorne groups of 
people with disabilities-effectively sub cultures within the larger culture of dis-
ability-have particular ways of referring to themselves that they would prefer 
others to adopto When you use the disability language choice s made by groups 
of disabled individuals, you honor their preferences. For example, sorne Deaf 
individuals culturally prefer to be called "Deaf" (capitalized) rather than "people 
with hearing loss" or "people who are deaf" (Dunn & Andrews, 2015). Likewise, 
use the term "hard of hearing" rather than "hearing-impaired." Honoring the 
preference of the group is not only a sign of professional awareness and respect 
for any disability group but also a way to offer solidarity. 
The language to use where disability is concerned is evolving. The overall 
principIe for using disability language is to maintain the integrity (worth and 
dignity) of all individuals as human beings. Authors who write about disability 
are encouraged to use terms and descriptions that both honor and explain per-
son-first and identity-first perspectives. Language should be selected with the 
understanding that the expressed preference of people with disabilities regard-
ing identification supersedes matters of style. 
Person-First Language. In person-first language, the person is emphasized, not 
the individual's disabling or chronic condition (e.g., use "a person with paraple-
gia" and "a youth with epilepsy" rather than 

=== PAGE 155 ===
Redueing Bias by Topie 
~ 137 
Choosing Between Person-First and Identity-First Language. Both person-first 
and identity-first approaches to language are designed to respect disabled per-
sons; both are fine choices overall. It is permissible to use either approach or 
to mix person-first and identitycfirst Ianguage unless or until you know that a 
group clearIy prefers one approach, in which case, you should use the preferred 
approach (Dunn & Andrews, n.d.). Mixing this language may help you avoid 
cumbersome repetition of "person with ... " and is also a means to change how 
authors and readers regard disability and people within particular disability 
communities. Indeed, the level of disability identity integration can be an effec-
tive way to decipher the language that is preferred by the persons about whom 
you are writing. Those who embrace their disability as part of their cultural and/ 
or personal identity are more likely to prefer identity-first language (Dunn & 
Andrews, 2015). If you are unsure of which approach to use, seek guidance from 
self-advocacy groups or other stakeholders specific to a group of people (see, 
e.g., Brown, 2011/n.d.). If you are working with participants directly, use the lan-
guage they use to describe themselves. 
Relevance of Mentioning a Disability. The nature of a disability should be 
indicated when it is relevant. For example, if a sample included people with 
spinal cord injuries and people with autism-two different groups with disabil-
ities- then it makes sense to mention the presence of the particular disabilities. 
Within each group, there may be additional heterogeneity that should, under 
some circumstances, be articulated (e.g., different levels of spinal cord injury, 
different symptom severities of autism spectrum disorder). 
Negative and Condescending Terminology. Avoid language that uses picto-
rial metaphors or negativistic terms that imply restriction (e.g., "wheelchair 
bound" or "confined to a wheelchair"; use the term "wheelchair user" instead) 
and that uses excessive and negative labels (e.g., "AIDS victim," "brain damaged"; 
use the terms "person with AIDS" or "person with a traumatic brain injury" 
instead). Avoid terms that can be regarded as slurs (e.g., "cripple," "invalid," 
"nuts," "alcoholic," "meth addict"); use terms like "person with a physical di s-
ability," "person with a mental illness," "person with alcohol use disorder," or 
"person with substance use disorder" instead, or b

