=== PAGE 148 ===
Contents 
General Guidelines for Reducing Bias 
5.1 Describe at the Appropriate Level of Specificity 
132 
5.2 Be Sensitive to Labels 
133 
Reducing Bias by Topic 
5.3 Age 
135 
5.4 Disability 
136 
5.5 Gender 138 
5.6 Participation in Research 
141 
5.7 Racial and Ethnic Identity 142 
5.8 Sexual Orientation 
145 
5.9 Socioeconomic Status 
147 
5.10 Intersectionality 
148 
132 
135 


=== PAGE 149 ===
5 
BIAS-FREE LANGUAGE 
GUIDELINES 
Authors must strive to use language that is free of ~ias, meaning the implied 
or irrelevant evaluation of the group or graups they are writing about. As an 
organization, APA is committed to both the advancement of science and the 
fair treatment of individuals and groups. These principIes require that authors 
and students who use APA Style avoid perpetuating demeaning attitudes in 
their writing. It is unacceptable to use constructions that might imply preju-
dicial beliefs or perpetuate biased assumptions against persons on the basis of 
age, disability, gender, participation in research, racial or ethnic identity, sexual 
orientation, socioeconomic status, or sorne combination of these or other per-
sonal factors (e.g., marital status, immigration status, religion). lnstead, authors 
should use affirming and inclusive language. 
Long-standing cultural practice can exert a powerful influence over even the 
most conscientious writer. Just as you have learned to check what you write for 
spelling, grammar, and wordiness, practice rereading your work for preconcep-
tions about graups of people. Ask people fram the groups about which you are 
writing to read and comment on your material or consult self-advocacy graups 
to determine appropriate terminology. lf you work directly with participants, 
ask them what terms they use to describe themselves. Language changes over 
time, and it is important to use the terms that individuals and/or communities 
use to describe themselves, their experiences, and their practices. 
Sorne attempts to follow the guidelines in this chapter may result in wordi-
ness or clumsy prase. As always, good judgment is required-these are not rigid 
rules. lf your writing reflects respect for your participants and your readers, 
and if you write with appropriate specificity and precision, you contribute to 
the goal of accurate, unbiased communication. This chapter contains general 
guidelines for writing without bias that apply across a range of issues and addi-
tional guidelines that address specific topics, including age, disability, gender, 
participation in research, race and ethnicity, sexual orientation, socioeconomic 
131 


=== PAGE 150 ===
132 ~ BIAS-FREE LANGUAGE GUIDELlNES 
status, and intersectionality. Additional examples of bias-free language can be 
found on the APA Style website (https://apastyle.apa.org). 
General Guidelines for Reducing Bias 
5.1 Describe at the Appropriate Level of Specificity 
Precision is essential in scholarly writing; when you refer to a person or per-
sons, choose words that are accurate, clear, and free from bias or prejudicial 
connotations. Bias, like inaccurate or unclear language, can be a form of impre-
cision. For example, using "man" to refer to all human beings is not as accurate 
or inclusive as using the terms "individuals," "people," or "persons." 
Focus on Relevant Characteristics. Be mindful to describe only relevant char-
acteristics. Although it is possible to describe a person's age, disability, gender 
identity, participation in research, racial and ethnic identity, sexual orientation, 
socioeconomic status, or other characteristic without bias, it is not always nec-
essary to include all of this information in your report (for a more detailed dis-
cussion of participant characteristics to report in quantitative and qualitative 
studies, refer to Sections 3.6 and 3.14, respectively). For example, you would 
be unlikely to mention participants' sexual orientation in a study of cognition 
because sexual orientation is not relevant to cognition; however, you would 
likely mention participants' gender in a study of stereotype threat because gen-
der is relevant to the examination of stereotype threat. Furthermore, there may 
be multiple relevant characteristics to discuss; when this is the case, address the 
ways in which the characteristics intersect, as appropriate (see Section 5.10). 
Acknowledge Relevant Differences That Do Exist. Part of writing without bias 
is not only recognizing that differences should be mentioned only when rele-
vant but also acknowledging relevant differences when they do existo Evaluate 
the meaning of the word "difference" carefully in relation to the target popula-
tion, not the dominant group. For example, a researcher who wants to general-
ize the study results to people overall, or students overall, and so forth, should 
assess and report whether the sample studied is different from the target popu-
lation and, if so, describe how it is different. 
Be Appropriately Specific. Once you have determined which characteristics 
to describe, choose terms that are appropriately specific, which will depend on 
the resear

=== PAGE 151 ===
General Guidelines for Reducing Bias 
~ 133 
• When writing about age, exact ages or age ranges (e.g., 15-18 years old, 65-80 
years old) are more specific than broad categories (e.g., under 18 years old, 
over 65 years old; see Section 5.3). Also include the age mean and median in 
addition to the range of ages to increase the specificity of the reportiiJ.g. 
• When writing about disability, names of conditions (e.g., Alzheimer's disease) 
are more specific than categories of conditions (e.g., types of dementia) or 
general references such as "people with disabilities" (see Section 5.4). 
• When writing about gender identity, descriptors with modifiers (e.g., cisgen-
der women, transgender women) are more specific than descriptors without 
modifiers (e.g., women) or general nongendered terms (e.g., people, individ-
uals; see Section 5.5 for how to differentiate between gender and sex). 
• When writing about people who took part in research, terms that indicate 
the context of the research (e.g., patients, participants, clients) are more 
specific than general terms (e.g., people, children, women; see Section 5.6). 
• When writing about racial or ethnic groups, the nation or region of origin 
(e.g., Chinese Americans, Mexican Americans) is more specific than a gener-
alized origin (e.g., Asian Americans, Latin Americans; see Section 5.7). 
• When writing about sexual orientation, the names of people's orientations 
(e.g., lesbians, gay men, bisexual people, straight people) are more specific 
than broad group labels (e.g., gay; see Section 5.8). 
• When writing about soéioeconomic status, income ranges or specific des-
ignations (e.g., below the federal poverty threshold for a family of four) are 
more specific than generallabels (e.g., low income; see Section 5.9). 
5.2 Be Sensitive to Labels 
Respect the language people use to describe themselves; that is, call people 
what they call themselves. Accept that language changes with time and that 
individuals within groups sometimesdisagree about the designations they use. 
Make an effort to determine what is appropriate for your study or paper, par-
ticularly when these designations are debated within groups. You may need to 
ask your participants which designations they use and/or consult self-advocacy 
groups that represent these communities to research the issue if you are not 
working direcdy with participants. However, note that sorne individual s may 
use slurs or stigmatizing language to refer to the

=== PAGE 152 ===
134 
C\v 
BI AS-FRE E LA NGUA GE GUIDELlN ES 
mote a sense of unity and community (Solomon, 2012); use the label that 
the community uses, even when that label is adjectival (note, however, that 
not everyone who has hearing loss identifies as Deaf). In particular, the use 
of labels where disability is con cerned is evolving, and people may disagree 
about the preferred approach. When writing about disability, person-first . 
language (e.g., "a person with paraplegia" rather than "a paraplegic"), identity-
first language (e.g., "an autistic person" rather than "a person with autism"), 
or both may be acceptable depending on the group you are writing about 
(see Section 5.4). 
Provide Operational Definitions and Labels. If you provide operational 
definitions of groups early in your paper (e.g., "participants scoring a mini-
mum ofX on the Y scale constituted the high verbal group, and those scoring 
below X constituted the low verbal group"), the best practice is to describe 
participants thereafter in terms of the measures used to classify them (e.g., 
"the contrast for the high verbal group was statistically significant"), provided 
the terms are not inappropriate. A pejorative label should not be used in any 
formo Abbreviations or series labels for groups usually sacrifice clarity and 
may be problematic: "LDs" or "LD group" to describe people with specific 
learning difficulties is problematic; "HVAs" for "high verbal ability group" is 
difficult to decipher. "Group !\' is not problematic, but it is also not descrip-
tive. Instead, ensure that operational group labels are clear and appropriate 
(e.g., "group with dysgraphia"). 
Avoid False Hierarchies. Compare groups with careo Bias occurs when authors 
use one group (often their own group) as the standard against which others are 
judged (e.g., using citizens of the United States as the standard without speci-
fying why that group was chosen). For example, usage of "normal" may prompt 
readers to make the comparison with "abnormal," thus stigmatizing individu-
als with differences. Likewise, contrasting lesbians with "the general public" 
or "normal women" portrays lesbians as marginal to society. More appropriate 
comparison groups for lesbians might be straight individuals, straight women, 
or gay meno Use parallel designations for groups, especially when presenting 
racial and ethnic information (see Section 5.7). 
Be aware that the order of social group presentation may imply that the 
first-men

=== PAGE 153 ===
Reducing Bias by Topie 
5.3 Age 
Redueing Bias by Topie 
C\.V 
135 
Age should be reported as part of the description of participants in the' Method 
section. Be specific in providing age ranges, means, and medians (see also Sec-
tion 5.1). Avoid open-ended definitions such as "under 18 years" or "over 65 
years;' unless referring, for instance, to broad research study eligibility criteria. 
Terms for Different Age Groups. Different terms are used for individuals of dif-
ferent ages, and these terms are often gendered (see Section 5.5). Use the terms 
individuals use to self-describe, whether these are binary gender categories of 
boy-girl or man-woman or descriptive and possibly nonbinary categories of 
transgender, genderqueer, agender, or gender-fluid. 
o For an individual of any age, appropriate terms are "person," "individual;' 
and so on. In general, avoid using "males" and "females" as nouns; instead use 
"men" and "women" or other age-appropriate words (see Section 5.5). "Males" 
and "females" are appropriate when groups include individuals with a broad 
age range (e.g., "males" to describe a group that includes both boys and men). 
o For an individual aged 12 years and younger, appropriate terms are "infant" 
(for a very young child), "child," "girl," "boy," "transgender girl," "transgender 
boy," "gender-fluid child;' and so on. 
o For an individual aged 13 to 17 years, appropriate terms are "adolescent," 
"young person," "youth," "young woman," "young man," "female adolescent," 
"male adolescent," "agender adolescent," and so on. 
o For an individual aged 18 years and older, appropriate terms are "adult," 
"woman;' "man," "transgender man;' "trans man;' "transgender woman," "trans 
woman," "genderqueer adult," "cisgender adult," and so on. 
Terms for Older Adults. Older adults are a subgroup of adults, and the age groups 
of older adults may be described with adjectives. On first reference to a group of 
older people, be as specific as possible by including the age range, average age, 
and median age, when available. Terms such as "older persons," "older people," 
"older adults," "older patients," "older individuals," "persons 65 years and older," 
and "the older population" are preferred. Avoid using terms such as "seniors;' 
"elderlY;' "the aged;' "aging dependents;' and similar "othering" terms because 
they connote a stereotype and suggest that members of the group are not part 
of society but rather a group apart (see Lundebjerg et al., 201

=== PAGE 154 ===
136 
C\.\.> 
BIAS-FREE LANGUAGE GUIDELlNES 
tives, not as nouns (i.e., refer to "young-old individuals," not to "the young-old"). 
When contrasting older adults with adults of other ages, describe that other 
age group specifically (e.g., young adults vs.older adults, middle-aged adults 
vs. older adults). You can use decade-specific descriptors if desired (e.g., octo-
genarian, centenarian). Generational descriptors such as "baby boomers," "Gen 
. X," "millennials;' "centennials," "Gen Z," and so on should be used only when 
discussing studies related to the topic of generations. For more information 
on writing about age, see "Guidelines for the Evaluation of Dementia and Age-
Related Cognitive Change" (APA, 2012c) and "Guidelines for Psychological 
Practice With Older Adults" (APA, 2014). 
5.4 Disability 
Disability is a broad term that is defined in both legal and scientific ways and 
encompasses physical, psychological, intellectual, and socioemotional impair-
ments (World Health Organization, 2001, 2011). The members of sorne groups of 
people with disabilities-effectively sub cultures within the larger culture of dis-
ability-have particular ways of referring to themselves that they would prefer 
others to adopto When you use the disability language choice s made by groups 
of disabled individuals, you honor their preferences. For example, sorne Deaf 
individuals culturally prefer to be called "Deaf" (capitalized) rather than "people 
with hearing loss" or "people who are deaf" (Dunn & Andrews, 2015). Likewise, 
use the term "hard of hearing" rather than "hearing-impaired." Honoring the 
preference of the group is not only a sign of professional awareness and respect 
for any disability group but also a way to offer solidarity. 
The language to use where disability is concerned is evolving. The overall 
principIe for using disability language is to maintain the integrity (worth and 
dignity) of all individuals as human beings. Authors who write about disability 
are encouraged to use terms and descriptions that both honor and explain per-
son-first and identity-first perspectives. Language should be selected with the 
understanding that the expressed preference of people with disabilities regard-
ing identification supersedes matters of style. 
Person-First Language. In person-first language, the person is emphasized, not 
the individual's disabling or chronic condition (e.g., use "a person with paraple-
gia" and "a youth with epilepsy" rather than 

=== PAGE 155 ===
Redueing Bias by Topie 
~ 137 
Choosing Between Person-First and Identity-First Language. Both person-first 
and identity-first approaches to language are designed to respect disabled per-
sons; both are fine choices overall. It is permissible to use either approach or 
to mix person-first and identitycfirst Ianguage unless or until you know that a 
group clearIy prefers one approach, in which case, you should use the preferred 
approach (Dunn & Andrews, n.d.). Mixing this language may help you avoid 
cumbersome repetition of "person with ... " and is also a means to change how 
authors and readers regard disability and people within particular disability 
communities. Indeed, the level of disability identity integration can be an effec-
tive way to decipher the language that is preferred by the persons about whom 
you are writing. Those who embrace their disability as part of their cultural and/ 
or personal identity are more likely to prefer identity-first language (Dunn & 
Andrews, 2015). If you are unsure of which approach to use, seek guidance from 
self-advocacy groups or other stakeholders specific to a group of people (see, 
e.g., Brown, 2011/n.d.). If you are working with participants directly, use the lan-
guage they use to describe themselves. 
Relevance of Mentioning a Disability. The nature of a disability should be 
indicated when it is relevant. For example, if a sample included people with 
spinal cord injuries and people with autism-two different groups with disabil-
ities- then it makes sense to mention the presence of the particular disabilities. 
Within each group, there may be additional heterogeneity that should, under 
some circumstances, be articulated (e.g., different levels of spinal cord injury, 
different symptom severities of autism spectrum disorder). 
Negative and Condescending Terminology. Avoid language that uses picto-
rial metaphors or negativistic terms that imply restriction (e.g., "wheelchair 
bound" or "confined to a wheelchair"; use the term "wheelchair user" instead) 
and that uses excessive and negative labels (e.g., "AIDS victim," "brain damaged"; 
use the terms "person with AIDS" or "person with a traumatic brain injury" 
instead). Avoid terms that can be regarded as slurs (e.g., "cripple," "invalid," 
"nuts," "alcoholic," "meth addict"); use terms like "person with a physical di s-
ability," "person with a mental illness," "person with alcohol use disorder," or 
"person with substance use disorder" instead, or b

=== PAGE 156 ===
138 ~ BIAS-FREE LANGUAGE GUIDELlNES 
5.5 Gender 
Gender offers an added layer of specificity when interpreting patterns or phe-
nomena of human behavior. However, the tertns related to gender and sex are 
often conflated, making precisioh essential to writing about gender and/or sex 
without bias. The language related to gender identity and sexual orientation has 
also evolved rapidly, and it is important to use the terms people use to describe 
themselves (Singh, 2017; for how to determine appropriate terms, see Section 
5.2; for a list ofterms and definitions, see APA, n.d.-a). 
Gender Versus Sexo Gender refers to the attitudes, feelings, and behaviors that a 
given culture associates with a person's biological sex (APA, 2012b). Gender is a 
social construct and a social identity. Use the term "gender" when referring to 
people as social groups. For example, when reporting the genders of participants 
in the Method section, write something like this: "Approximately 60% of partic-
ipants identified as cisgender women, 35% as cisgender men, 3% as transgender 
women, 1% as transgender men, and 1% as nonbinary:' Sex refers to biological 
sex assignment; use the term "sex" when the biological distinction of sex assign-
ment (e.g., sex assigned at birth) is predominant. Using "gender" instead of "sex" 
also avoids ambiguity over whether "sex" means "sexual behavior." In sorne cases, 
there may not be a clear distinction between biological and acculturative factors, 
so a discussion ofboth sex and gender would be appropriate. For example, in the 
study of sexual orientation (se e Section 5.8), researchers continue to examine 
the extent to which sexuality or sexual orientation-attraction to sex, gender, or 
sorne combination of both-is a biological and/or acculturative phenomenon. 
Gender Identity. Gender identity is a component of gender that describes a per-
son's psychological sense of their gender. Many people describe gender identity 
as a deeply felt, inherent sense of being a boy, aman, or male; a girl, a woman, 
or female; or a nonbinary gender (e.g., genderqueer, gender-nonconformin~, 
gender-neutral, agender, gender-fluid) that may or may not correspond to a per-
son's sex assigned at birth, presumed gender based on sex assignment, or primary 
or secondary sex characteristics (APA, 2015a). Gender identity applies to all indi-
viduals and is not a characteristic only of transgender or gender-nonconforming 
individuals. Gender identity is distinct from 

=== PAGE 157 ===
Redueing Bias by Topie 
not conform to what is culturally associated with their sex assigned at birth. 
Sorne transgender people hold a binary gender, such as man or woman, but oth-
ers hilVe a gender outside ofthis binary, such as gender-fluid or nonbinary. Indi-
viduals whose gender varies from presumptions based on their sex assigned at 
birth may use terms other than "transgender" to describe their gender, including 
"gender-nonconforming," "genderqueer;' "gender-nonbinary," "gender-creative," 
"agender;' or "two-spirit," to name a few. (Note that "two-spirit" is a term specific 
to Indigenous and Native American communities.) Transprejudice and transnega-
tivity denote discriminatory attitudes toward individuals who are transgender. 
Diverse identity terms are used by transgender and gender-nonconforming 
(TGNC) people, and "TGNC" is a generally agreed-upon umbrella termo These 
terms are generally used in an identity-first way (e.g., "transgender people," 
"TGNC people"). However, there is sorne variation in the field; for example, clini-
cians often refer to individuals according to identity (self-identified) or describe 
gender variance, gender expansiveness, or gender diversity rather than gender noncon-
formity or nonbinary gender. Be sure to use identity labels that are in accordance 
with the stated identities of the people you are describing, and clearly define 
how you are using such identity labels within your writing. 
Sex Assignment. The terms "birth sex," "natal sex," "tranny," and "transvestite" 
are considered disparaging by scholars in TGNC psychological research; by 
many individuals identifying as transgender, gender-nonconforming, or nonbi-
nary; and by people exhibiting gender diversity. Thus, these disparaging terms 
should be avoided. Additionally, "birth sex" and "natal sex" imply that sex is an 
immutable characteristic without sociocultural influence. It is more appropri-
. ate to use "assigned sex" or "sex assigned at birth," as this functionally describes 
the assignment of a sex term (frequently binary male or female; however, inter-
sex is an accurate assignment for sorne) predicated on observation of genitalia 
and/or determination of chromosomes and anatomical structures of the body 
at birth, which necessarily is interpreted within a sociocultural contexto The 
term "transsexual" is largely outdated, but sorne people identify with it; this 
term should be used only for an individual who specifically claims it. 
Gender a

=== PAGE 158 ===
140 
~ BIAS-FREE LANGUAGE GUIDELlNES 
dered endings such as "man" in occupational titles (e.g., use "police officer" 
instead of "policeman"), as these can be ambiguous and may imply incorrectly 
that aH persons in the group self-identify as one gender. Instead, use a non-
gendered term if possible (e.g., "homemaker" instead of "housewife"). If you 
use sources that include the generic "man," generic "he," or dated occupational 
titles, clarify the historical context in which these terms were used (for more 
details, see the APA Style website at https://apastyle.apa.org). 
Gender and Prono un Usage. Pronoun usage requires specificity and care on 
the author's part. Do not refer to the pronouns that transgender and gender-
nonconforming people use as "preferred pronouns" because this implies a 
choice about one's gender. Use the terms "identified pronouns," "self-identified 
pronouns," or "pronouns" instead. When writing about a known individual, use 
that person's identified pronouns. Sorne individuals use "they" as a singular 
pronoun; sorne use alternative pronouns such as "ze," "xe," "hir," "per," "ve," 
"ey," and "hen" (Swedish gender-neutral pronoun), among others. Sorne indi-
viduals may alternate between "he" and "she" or between "he and/or she" and 
"they," whereas others use no pronouns at aH and use their name in place of 
pronouns. Refer to a transgender person using language appropriate to the 
person's gender, regardless of sex assigned at birth-for example, use the pro-
nouns "he," "him," and "his" in reference to a transgender man who indicates 
use of these pronouns. 
When referring to individuals whose identified pronouns are not known or 
when the gender of a generic or hypothetical person is irrelevant within the con-
text, use the singular "they" to avoid making assumptions about an individual's 
gender. Use the forms "they," "them," "theirs," and so forth. Sexist bias can occur 
when pronouns are used carelessly, as when the pronoun "he" is used to refer to 
aH people, when a gendered pronoun is used exclusively to define roles by sex 
(e.g., "the nurse .. . she"), or when "he" and "she" are alternated as though these 
terms are generic. Pronouns associated with a specific gender have been found 
to induce readers to think of individuals of that gender even when the pronoun 
use is intended to be generic (Gastil, 1990; Moulton et al., 1978). In addition, 
exposure to gender-specific language in a professional context has been linked 
w

=== PAGE 159 ===
Redueing Bias by Topie 
~ 141 
sexes or genders; however, there are more similarities than differences among 
people of different genders or sexes (see, e.g., Zell et al., 2015). As noted pre-
viously, sorne individuals do not identify with either binary gender, and these 
phrases ignore the existence of individmlls who have disorders or differences 
of sex development or whoa re intersex (for more information, see Accord Alli-
ance, n.d.; APA, 2015a; Blackless et al., 2000; Intersex Society of North Amer-
ica, n.d.). To describe members of a relationship (e.g., romantic couples, people 
in polyamorous relationships), use the phrases "mixed gender" or "mixed sex" 
when the partners have different genders or sexes, rather than "opposite gen-
der" or "opposite sex"; use the phrases "same gender" or "same sex" when the 
partners have the same gender or sexo 
5.6 Participation in Research 
People participate in research in a variety of settings, including laboratories, 
homes, schools, businesses, clinics, and hospitals. Specific terms are used in cer-
tain contexts. When writing about people who participate in research, descrip-
tive terms such as "college students," "children;' or "respondents" as well as the 
more general terms "participants" and "subjects" are acceptable. "Subjects" and 
"sample" are also customary when discussing established statistical terms and 
experimental designs (e.g., "within-subjects design," "between-subjects design," 
"sample-size-adjusted Bayesian information criterion," "between-samples esti-
mate of the variance"). 
Use the term "patient" to describe an individual diagnosed with a mental 
health, behavioral health, and/or medical disease, disorder, or problem who 
is receiving services from a health care provider (e.g., psychologist, physician, 
nurse, or other provider). This language is consistent with the language used 
in the health care system and pro motes psychologists as being perceived a part 
of, and consistently integrated into, the culture of interprofessional, integrated 
health careo However, in academic, business, school, or other settings, the term 
"client" (or sorne other term) might be preferred instead of "patient." Within all 
contexts, respect the individual and/or cultural preferences expressed by recip-
ients of psychological services and their families when you choose language to 
describe those individuals, families, or populations. (For further information, 
see Resolution for the Use of the Tenn Pa

=== PAGE 160 ===
142 ~ BIAS-FREE LANGUAGE GUIDELlNES 
low average and mildly impaired ranges, indicating a risk for a diagnosis of X"), 
whereas in a diagnostic context, "the diagnosis was borderline" may be clarified 
to specify a diagnosis (e.g., borderline personality disorder). When using the 
term "at risk," specify who is at risk and the nature ofthat risk (e.g., "adolescents 
who use substances are at risk for early school dropout"). 
Across contexts, write about the people who participated in your work in 
a way that acknowledges their contributions and agency. Sentence structure 
plays a key role in this acknowledgment, as does using professionallanguage 
(see Section 4.7). Use the active voice to describe your actions and the actions of 
participants (see Section 4.13); the passive voice suggests individuals are acted 
upon instead of being actors (e.g., "the subjects completed the tri al" and "we 
collected data from the participants" are preferable to "the tri al was completed 
by the subjects" and "the participants were run"). Avoid the term "failed," as in 
"eight participants failed to complete the Rorschach test," because it can imply a 
personal shortcoming instead of a research result; "did not complete" is a more 
neutral choice (Knatterud, 1991). These choices will help ensure that you convey 
respect for the people about whom you are writing. 
5.7 Racial and Ethnic Identity 
Terms used to refer to racial and ethnic groups continue to change over time. 
One reason for this is simply personal preference; preferred designations are as 
varied as the people they name. Another reason is that designations can become 
dated over time and may hold negative connotations. When describing racial 
and ethnic groups, be appropriately specific and sensitive to issues of labeling 
(see Sections 5.1- 5.2). 
Raee refers to physical differences that groups and cultures consider socially 
significant. For example, people might identify their race as Aboriginal, Afri-
can American or Black, Asian, European American or White, Native Ameri-
can, Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander, Maori, or sorne other race. Ethnieity 
refers to shared cultural characteristics such as language, ancestry, practices, 
and beliefs. For example, people might identify as Latino or another ethnicity. 
Be clear about whether you are referring to a racial group or to an ethnic group. 
Race is a social construct that is not universal, so one must be careful not to 
impose raciallabels on ethnic gro

=== PAGE 161 ===
Redueing Bias by Tapie 
~ 143 
who are Indigenous or Aboriginal (e.g., "the authors were all Indigenous people 
but belonged to different nations"). 
Do not use hyphens in multiword names, even if the names act as unit mod-
ifiers (e.g., write "Asian American participants," not "Asian-American partici-
pants"). If people belong to multiple racial or ethnic groups, the names of the 
specific groups are capitalized, but the terms "multiracial," "biracial," "multi-
ethnic," and so on are lowercase. 
Terms for Specific Groups. Designations for specific ethnic and racial groups 
are described next. These groups frequendy are included in studies published in 
APA journals; the examples provided are far from exhaustive but illustrate sorne 
of the complexities of labeling. 
People of African Origino When writing about people of African ancestry, several 
factors inform the appropriate terms to use. People of African descent have 
widely varied cultural backgrounds, family histories, and family experiences. 
Sorne will be from Caribbean islands, Latin America, various regions in the 
United States, countries in Africa, or elsewhere. Sorne American people of Afri-
can ancestry prefer "Black," and others prefer "African American"; both terms 
are acceptable. However, "African American" should not be used as an umbrella 
term for people of African ancestry worldwide because it obscures other eth-
nicities or national origins, such as Nigerian, Kenyan, Jamaican, or Bahamian; 
in these cases use "Black." The terms "Negro" and "Afro-American" are outdated; 
therefore, their use is generally inappropriate. 
People of Asian Origino When writing about people of Asian ancestry from Asia, 
the term "Asian" is appropriate; for people of Asian descent from the United 
States or Canada, the appropriate term is "Asian American" or "Asian Cana-
dian;' respectively. It is problematic to group ''Asian'' and ''Asian American" as if 
they are synonymous. This usage reinforces the idea that Asian Americans are 
perpetual foreigners. ''Asian'' refers to Asians in Asia, not in the United States, 
and should not be used to refer to Asian Americans. The older term "Oriental" 
is primarily used to refer to cultural objects such as carpets and is pejorative 
when used to refer to people. To provide more specificity, ''Asian origin" may 
be divided regionally, for example, into South Asia (including most of India and 
countries such as Afghanistan, Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Nepal), Southeast

=== PAGE 162 ===
144 ~ BIAS-FREE LANGUAGE GUIDELlNES 
Indigenous Peoples Around the World. When writing about Indigenous Peoples, use 
the names that they call themselves. In general, refer to an Indigenous group as 
a "people" or "nation" rather than as a "tribe." 
• In North America, the collective terms "Native American" and "Native North 
American" are acceptable (and may be preferred to "American Indian"). 
"Indian" usually refers to people from India. Specify the nation or people if 
possible (e.g., Cherokee, Navajo, Sioux). 
• Hawaiian Natives may identify as "Native American," "Hawaiian Native," 
"Indigenous Peoples of the Hawaiian Islands," and/or "Pacific Islander." 
• In Canada, refer to the Indigenous Peoples collectively as "Indigenous Peo-
pIes" or "Aboriginal Peoples" (Intemational ˇoumal ol Indigenous Health, n.d.); 
specify the nation or people if possible (e.g., People of the First Nations of 
Canada, People of the First Nations, or First Nations People; Métis; Inuit). 
• In Alaska, the Indigenous People may identify as "Alas ka Natives." The Indig-
enous Peoples in Alaska, Canada, Siberia, and Greenland may identify as a 
specific nation (e.g., Inuit, Ińupiat). Avoid the term "Eskimo" because it may 
be considered pejorative. 
• In Latin America and the Caribbean, refer to the Indigenous Peoples col-
lectively as "Indigenous Peoples" and by name if possible (e.g., Quechua, 
Aymara, Taíno, Nahuatl). 
• In Australia, the Indigenous Peoples may identify as ''Aboriginal People" or 
"Aboriginal Australians" and "Torres Strait Islander People" or "Torres Strait 
Island Australians." Refer to specific groups when people use these terms 
to refer to themselves (e.g., Anangu Pitjantjatjara, Arrernte). 
• In New Zealand, the Indigenous People may identify as "Maori" or the "Maori 
people" (the proper spelling includes the diacritical macro n over the "a"). 
For information on citing the Traditional Knowledge or Oral Traditions of 
Indigenous Peoples as well as the capitalization of terms related to Indigenous 
Peoples, see Section 8.9. 
People 01 Middle Eastem Origino When writing about people of Middle Eastern 
and North African (MENA) descent, state the nation of origin (e.g., Iran, Iraq, 
Egypt, Lebanon, Israel) when possible. In sorne cases, people of MENA descent 
who claim Arab ancestry and reside in the United States may be referred to as 
''Arab Americans." In all cases, it is best to allow individuals to self-identify. 
People 01 Hispanic or Latinx Ethnic

=== PAGE 163 ===
Redueing Bias by Topie 
~ 145 
.word "Latin@" to mean both Latino and Latina is now widely accepted. "Latinx" 
can also be used as a gender-neutral or nonbinary term inclusive ofall gen-
ders. There are compelling reasons to use any of the terms "Latino," "Latina," 
"Latino/a," "Latin@," and/or "Latinx'.' (see de Onís, 2017), and variousgroups 
advocate for the use of different forms. 
Use the-term(s) your participants or population uses; ifyou are not working 
directly with thispopulation but it is a focus of your research, it may be helpful 
to explain why you chose the term you used or to choose a more inclusive term 
like "Latinx." In general, naming a nation or region of origin is preferred (e.g., 
Bolivian, Salvadoran, or Costa Rican is more specific than Latino, Latinx, Latin 
American, or Hispanic). 
Parallel Comparisons Among Groups. Nonparallel designations (e.g., "Afri-
can Americans and Whites;' "Asian Americans and Black Americans") should 
be avoided because one group is described by color, whereas the other group 
is noto Instead, use "Blacks and Whites" or ''African Americans and European 
Americans" for the former example and ''Asian Americans and African Ameri-
cans" for the latter example. Do not use the phrase "White Americans and racial 
minorities"; the rich diversity within racial minorities is minimized when it is 
compared with the term "White Americans." 
Avoiding Essentialism. Language that essentializes or reifies race is strongly 
discouraged and is generally considered inappropriate. For example, phrases 
such as "the Black race" and "the White race" are essentialist in nature, portray 
human groups monolithically, and often perpetuate stereotypes. 
Writing About "Minorities." To refer to non-White racial and ethnic groups 
collectively, use terms such as "people of color" or "underrepresented groups" 
rather than "minorities." 'f.he use of "minority" may be viewed pejoratively 
because it is usually equated with being less than, oppressed, or deficient in 
comparison with the majority (i.e., White people). Rather, a minority group is a 
population subgroup with ethnic, racial, social, religious, or other character-
istics different from those of the majority of the population, though the rele-
vance of this term is changing as the demographics of the population change 
(APA, 201Sa). If a distinction is needed between the dominant racial group 
and nondominant racial groups, use a modifier (e.g., "ethnic," "racial") when 
usin

=== PAGE 164 ===
146 ~ BIAS-FREE LANGUAGE GUIDELlNES 
iation that may result from this attraction" (APA, 2015a, p. 862). Use the term 
"sexual orientation" rather than "sexual preference," "sexual identity," or "sexual 
orientation identity." All people choose their partners regardless of their sexual 
orientation; however, the orien~ation itself is not a choice. 
Sexual orientation can be conceptualized first by the degree to which a 
person feels sexual and emotional attraction; sorne parallel terms are "sexual," 
"demisexual" (or "gray-asexual" or "gray-A"), and "asexual" (see The Asexual Visi-
bility & Education Network, n.d.). A person who identifies as sexual feels sexual 
and emotional attraction toward sorne or all types of people, a person who iden-
tifies as demisexual feels sexually attracted only within the context of a strong 
emotional connection with another person, and a person who identifies as asex-
ual does not experience sexual attraction or has little interest in sexual behavior 
(see APA, 2015b). 
Second, sexual orientation can be conceptualized as having a direction. 
For people who identify as sexual or demisexual, their attraction then may be 
directed toward people who are similady gendered, differently gendered, and 
so on. That is, sexual orientation indicates the gendered directionality of attrac-
tion, even ifthat directionality is very inclusive (e.g., nonbinary). Thus, a person 
might be attracted to men, women, both, neither, masculinity, femininity, and/ 
or to people who have other gender identities such as genderqueer or androg-
ynous, or a person may have an attraction that is not predicated on a perceived 
or known gender identity. 
Terms for Sexual Orientation. Sorne examples of sexual orientation are lesbian, 
gay, heterosexual, straight, asexual, bisexual, queer, polysexual, and pansexual 
(also called multisexual and omnisexual). For example, a person who identifies 
as lesbian might describe herself as a woman (gender identity) who is attracted 
to women (sexual orientation)-the sexual orientation label of"lesbian" is pred-
icated on a perceived or known gender identity of the other persono However, 
someone who identifies as pansexual might describe their attraction to people 
as being inclusive of gender identity but not determined or delineated by gen-
der identity. Note that these definitions are evolving and that self-identification 
is best when possible. 
Use the umbrella term "sexual and gender minorities" to refer to mult

=== PAGE 165 ===
Redueing Bias by Topie 
C\,y 
147 
,your paper, or use the phrase "gay men" to clarifY the usage. By convention, the 
term "lesbians" is appropriate to use interchangeably with "lesbian women;' but 
"gay men" or "gay people" should be used, not "gays." 
. 
Inaccurate or Pejorative Terms. Avoid the terms "homosexual" and "homo-
sexuality." Instead, use specific, identity-first terms to describe people's sexual 
orientation (e.g., bisexual people, queer people). These specific terms refer pri-
marily to identities and to the culture and communities that have developed 
among people who share thoseidentities. It is inaccurate to collapse these com-
munities into the term "homosexual." Furthermore, the term "homosexuality" 
. has been and continues to be associated with negative stereotypes, pathology, 
and the reduction of people's identities to their sexual behavior. Homoprejudice, 
biprejudice, homonegativity, and so forth are terms used to denote prejudicial 
and discriminatory attitudes toward lesbians, gay men, bisexual individuals, 
or other sexual minorities. Heterosexism refers to the belief that heterosexuality 
is normative, as indicated in the assumption that individuals are heterosexual 
unless otherwise specified (American Psychological Association of Graduate 
Students, 2015). The terms "straight" and "heterosexual" are both acceptable to 
use when referring to people who are attracted to individuals of another gen-
der; the term "straight" may help move the lexicon away from a dichotomy of 
heterosexual and homosexual. For more information regarding sexual orienta-
tion, see "Guidelines for Psychological Practice With Transgender and Gender 
Nonconforming People" (APA, 2015a). 
5.9 Socioeconomic Status 
Socioeconomic status (SES) encompasses not only income but also educational 
attainment, occupational prestige, and subjective perceptions of social status 
and social class. SES encompasses quality of life attributes and opportunities 
afforded to people within society and is a consistent predictor of a vast array of 
psychological outcomes. Thus, SES should be reported as part of the descrip-
tion of participants in the Method section. Because SES is complex, it is not 
indexed similarly in all studies; therefore, precise terminology that appropri-
ately describes a level of specificity and sensitivity is essential to minimize bias 
in language around SES (for a discussion, see Diemer et al., 2013). 
Reporti'ng SES. When reporting SES, provide

=== PAGE 166 ===
148 ~ BIAS-FREE LA NGUAGE GUIDELlNES 
stricken," and "welfare reliant." Instead, use specific, person-first language such 
as "mothers who receive TANF benefits" rather than "welfare mothers" ("TANF" 
stand s for "Temporary Assistance for Needy Families" and is the proper term 
for the current welfare programin the United States). When discussing people 
without a fixed, regular, or adequate nighttime residence, use specific language 
that addresses the quality or lack of housing or length of time without housing, 
not whether the people consider their residence ahorne. That is, use language 
like "people experiencing homelessness," "people who are homeless," "people in 
emergency shelter," or "people in transitional housing," rather than calling peo-
pIe "the homeless." 
It is important to note that SES terms such as "low-income" and "poor" have 
historically served as implicit descriptors for racial and/or ethnic minority peo-
pIe. Thus, it is critical that authors include racial and/or ethnic descriptors within 
SES categories-for example, "This sample includes low-income and middle-
income Puerto Rican fathers." Implicit biases around economic and occupa-
tional status can result in deficit-based language that blames individuals for 
their occupational, educational, or economic situation (e.g., "attendant eco-
nomic deficits") rather than recognizing a broader societal context that influ-
ences individual circumstances. Deficit-based language also focuses on what 
people lack rather than on what they possess. Instead oflabeling people as "high 
school dropouts," "being poorly educated," or "having little education," provide 
more sensitive and specific descriptors such as "people who do not have a high 
school diploma or equivalent." Alternatively, by adopting a strengths-based per-
spective, authors can write about "people who have a grade school education." 
Likewise, instead of writing about an "achievement gap," write about an "oppor-
tunity gap" to emphasize how the context in which people live affects their out-
comes or opportunities. 
5.10 Intersectionality 
When authors write about personal characteristics, they should be sensitive 
to intersectionality-that is, to the way in which individuals are shaped by and 
identify with a vast array of cultural, structural, sociobiological, economic, 
and social contexts (Howard & Renfrow, 2014). Intersectionality is a paradigm 
that addresses the multiple dimensions of identity and social systems as the

=== PAGE 167 ===
Redueing Bias by Topie 
~ 149 
in or driven by the perspectives of White women or of Black men (Bowleg, 
2008; Crenshaw, 1989). That is, for example, even though Black women and 
White women are both women, and Black women and Black men are both 
Black, this do es not mean that the perspectives and experiences of the laUer 
groups are the same as or related to those of Black lesbian women. 
Intersectional identities also include experiences of privileged contexts that 
intersect with those of oppression. For example, a Laotian immigrant woman 
with a disability may experience a sense of safety and privilege because of her 
legal immigration status in the United States, but she may experience discrim-
. ination and a lack of access to appropriate resources within and outside of her 
family and ethnic community on the basis of her disability status. A Jewish 
American adolescent may experience privilege as a result of being perceived as 
White but may be the target of anti-Semitic slurs at school and in social media 
because of their religious beliefs. These examples illustrate how perspectives 
are shaped by the multiplicity of identities and contexts to which an individual 
belongs, sorne oppressed and sorne privileged. Aspects of identity such as race, 
gender, and class can be oppressed or privileged, in ways that may differ across 
contexts, and can result in differing experiences that interact dynamically to 
shape an individual's experiences, advantages, and disadvantages across time 
and space. The intersections of multiple identities transform the oppressed and 
privileged aspects of each person's layered, interlocking identities. 
To address intersectionality in a paper, identify individuals' relevant charac-
teristics and group memberships (e.g., ability and/or disability status, age, gen-
der, gender identity, generation, historical as well as ongoing experiences of 
marginalization, immigrant status, language, national origin, race and/or ethnic-
ity, religion or spirituality, sexual orientation, social class, and socioeconomic 
status, among other variables), and describe how their characteristics and group 
memberships intersect in ways that are relevant to the study. Report participant 
data for each group using specific terms as described in Sections 5.3 to 5.9. For 
example, when describing participants in terms of their race and gender, write 
"20 participants were African American women, 15 participants were European 
American women, 23 p

=== PAGE 169 ===
Contents 
Punctuation 
153 
6.1 Spacing After Punctuation Marks 
154 
6.2 Period 
154 
6.3 Comma 
155 
6.4 Semicolon 
156 
6.5 Colon 
156 
6.6 Dash 
157 
6.7 Quotation Marks 
157 
6.8 Parentheses 
159 
6.9 Square Brackets 
160 
6.10 Slash 
160 
Spelling 
6.11 Preferred Spelling 
161 
6.12 Hyphenation 
162 
161 
Capitalization 
165 
6.13 Words Beginning a Sentence 
165 
6.14 Proper Nouns and Trade Names 
165 
6.15 Job Titles and Positions 
166 
6.16 Diseases, Disorders, Therapies, 
Theories, and Related Terms 
166 
6.17 Titles ofWorks and Headings Within 
Works 
167 
6.18 Titles of Tests and Measures 
168 
6.19 Nouns Followed by Numerals or 
Letters 
168 
6.20 Names of Conditions or Groups in 
an Experiment 
169 
6.21 Names of Factors, Variables, and 
Effects 
169 
ltalics 
170 
6.22 Use of Italics 
170 
6.23 Reverse Italics 
171 
Abbreviations 
172 
6.24 Use of Abbreviations 
172 
6.25 Definition of Abbreviations 
173 
6.26 Format of Abbreviations 
173 
6.27 Unit of Measurement 
Abbreviations 
174 
6.28 Time Abbreviations 
176 
6.29 Latin Abbreviations 
176 
6.30 Chemical Compound 
Abbreviations 
177 
6.31 Gene and Protein Name 
Abbreviations 
177 
Numbers 
6.32 Numbers Expressed in 
Numerals 
178 
6.33 Numbers Expressed in Words 
179 
6.34 Combining Numerals and Words 
to Express Numbers 
179 
6.35 Ordinal Numbers 
179 
6.36 Decimal Fractions 
180 
6.37 Roman Numerals 
180 
6.38 Commas in Numbers 
180 
6.39 Plurals of Numbers 
181 
Statistical and Mathematical Copy 
6.40 Selecting Effective 
Presentation 
1 81 
6.41 References for Statistics 
181 
6.42 Formulas 
181 
6.43 Statistics in Text 
181 
6.44 Statistical Symbols and 
Abbreviations 
182 
6.45 Spacing, Alignment, and 
Punctuation for Statistics 
187 
Presentation of Equations 
6.46 Equations in Text 
188 
6.47 Displayed Equations 
188 
6.48 Preparing Statistical and 
Lists 
Mathematical Copy for 
Publication 
189 
6.49 List Guidelines 
189 
6.50 Lettered Lists 
189 . 
6.51 Numbered Lists 
189 
6.52 Bulleted Lists 
190 
178 
181 
188 
189 


=== PAGE 170 ===
6 
MECHANICS OF STYLE 
Style refers to guidelines for ensuring clear, consistent communication and pre-
sentation in written works. APA Style, as described in this Publication Manual, 
provides guidelines for writing scholarly papers. Publishers and instructors 
often require authors writing for publication and students writing for a course 
or degree requirement to follow specific style guidelines to avoid inconsisten-
cies among and within journal articles, book chapters, and academic papers. 
For example, without style guidelines, authors might use the spellings "health 
care," "health-care," and "healthcare" interchangeably in one work. Although 
their meaning is the same and the choice of one style over another may seem 
arbitrary (in this case, "health care," with a space and no hyphen, is APA Style), 
such variations in style can distract or confuse readers. 
In this chapter, we provide essential style guidelines for scholarly writing, 
including punctuation, spelling, capitalization, italics, abbreviations, numbers, 
statistical and mathematical copy, and lists. These guidelines often overlap with 
those for general good writing practices. However, we omit general grammar 
rules explained in widely available writing manuals and examples of grammar 
or usage with little relevance to manuscripts submitted to journals that use APA 
Style. Style manuals agree more often than they disagree; when they disagree, 
the Publication Manual takes precedence for APA Style papers or publications. 
Punduation 
Punctuation establishes the cadence of a sentence, telling readers where to 
pause (comma, semicolon, and colon), stop (period and question mark), or take 
a detour (dash, parentheses, and square brackets). Punctuation of a sentence 
usually denotes a pause in thought; different kinds of punctuation indicate dif-
ferent kinds and lengths of pauses. 
, I
153 


=== PAGE 171 ===
154 ~ MECHANICS OF STYLE 
6.1 Spacing After Punctuation Marks 
Insert one space after the following: 
• periods or other punctuation marks at the end of a sentence 
• commas, colons, and semicofons 
• periods that separate parts of a reference list entry (see Section 9.5) 
• periods following initials in names (M. P. Clark) 
Do not insert a space in the following cases: 
• after internal periods in abbreviations (e.g., a.m., i.e., U.S.) 
• after periods in identity-concealing labels for study participants (F.I.M.) 
• around colons in ratio s (1:4) 
Note: We recommend using one space after the period or other punctuation 
mark at the end of a sentence; however, follow the guidelines of your publisher or 
instructor if they have different requirements. 
6.2 Period 
Use a period or periods in the following cases: 
• to end a complete sentence 
• with initials in names (Bazerman, M. H.) 
• in the abbreviations for "United States" and "United Kingdom" when they are 
used as adjectives (U.S. Navy; it is not required to abbreviate these terms) 
• in identity-concealing labels for study participants (F.I.M.) 
• in Latin abbreviations (a.m., cf., e.g., i.e., p.m., vs.) 
• in reference abbreviations (Vol. 1, 2nd ed., p. 6, paras. 11-12, F. Supp.) 
• in era designations (B.C.E., e.E., B.e., A.D.; see Section 9.42) 
• to end each elementwithin areference (except DOIs and URLs; see Section 9.5) 
Do not use periods in the following cases: 
• in abbreviations of state, province, or territory names (NY; CA; Washington, 
DC; BC; ON; NSW) 
• in capitalletter abbreviations and acronyms (APA, NDA, NIMH, IQ) 
• in abbreviations for academic degrees (PhD, PsyD, EdD, MD, MA, RN, MSW, 
LCSW, etc.; see Section 2.5) 
• in abbreviations for routes of administration (icv, im, ip, iv, sc) 
• in metric and nonmetric measurement abbreviations (cm, hr, kg, min, mI, s) 
Note: Use a period with the abbreviation for "inch" or "inches" (in.) because 
otherwise it could be misread. 


=== PAGE 172 ===
Punctuation 
~ 155 
• after URLs in the text (see Section 8.22); instead, place URLs in the middle of 
the sentence or in parentheses to avoid ending a sentence with a URL 
• after DOIs or URLs in the reference list(see Section 9.35) 
6.3 Comma 
Use a comma in the following cases: 
• between elements in a series of three or more items, including before the 
final item (see also Section 6.49); this last comma is called a serial camma or 
Oxfard camma 
Correct: height, width, and depth 
Incorrect: height, width and depth 
• after an introductory phrase (if the introductory phrase is short, the comma 
after it is optional) 
After the nurses administered the medication, patients rated their pain. 
in this section, we discuss 
or 
in this section we discuss 
• to set off a nonessential or nonrestrictive clause (see Section 4.21)- that is, a 
clause that embellishes a sentence but if removed would leave the grammati-
cal structure and meaning of the sentence intact 
Strong fearful faces, which are rarely seen in everyday life, convey intense expression of 
negative emotions. 
• to set off statistics in the text that already contain parentheses, to avoid nested 
parentheses 
Sleep amount was not significantly different between the three groups (nap: M = 7.48 
hr, SO = 1.99; wake: M = 8.13 hr, SO = 1.22; nap + wake: M = 7.25 hr, SO = 0.76), F(2, 71) 
= 2.32, P = .11. 
There was a main effect of group on corrected recognition, F(2, 71) = 3.38, P < .04, I'lp2 = .087. 
• to separate two independent clauses joined by a conjunction 
Facial expressions were presented, and different photo models were chosen randomly. 
• to set off the year in exact dates in the text or in a retrieval date (see Section 
9.16); however, when only a month and year appear in the text, do not use a 
comma 
Retrieved April 24, 2020, from 
in April 2020 
• to set off the year in parenthetical in-text citations 
(Bergen-Abramoff, 2018) 
(Horowitz, 2019, discovered . . . ) 
• to separate groups of three digits in most numbers of 1,000 or more (see Sec-
tion 6.38 for exceptions) 


=== PAGE 173 ===
156 
~ MECHANICS OF STYLE 
Do not use a comma in the following cases: 
• before an essential or restrictive clause (see Section 4.21) because removing 
such a clause from the sentence would alter the intended meaning 
Adolescents who spent a small amount of time on electronic communication activities, 
were happier than those who spent no time on such activities. 
• between the two parts of a compound predicate 
Correct: Participants rated the items and completed a demographic questionnaire. 
Incorrect: Participants rated the items, and completed a demographic questionnaire, 
• to separate parts of measurement 
7 years 4 months 
2 min 35 s 
5 ft 10 in. 
6.4 Semicolon 
Use a semicolon in the following cases: 
• to separate two independent clauses that are notjoined by a conjunction 
Students received course credit for participation; community members received $10. 
• to separate two independent clauses joined by a conjunctive adverb such as 
"however;' "therefore," or "nevertheless" 
The children studied the vocabulary words; however, they had difficulties with recall. 
• to separate items in a list that already contain commas (see Section 6.49) 
The color groups were red, yellow, and blue; orange, green, and purple; or black, gray, 
and brown. 
• to separate multiple parenthetical citations (see Section 8.12) 
(Gaddis, 2018; Lai et al., 2016; Williams & Peng, 2019) 
• to separate different types of information in the same set of parentheses, to 
avoid back-to-back parentheses 
(n = 33; Fu & Ginsburg, 2020) 
• to separate sets of statistics that already contain commas 
(age, M = 34.5 years, 95% el [29.4, 39.6]; years of education, M = 10.4 [8.7,12.1]; and 
weekly income, M = $612 [522, 702]). 
6.5 Colon 
Use a colon in the following cases: 
• between a grammatically complete introductory clause (one that could 
stand alone as a sentence, including an imperative statement) and a final 
phrase or clause that illustrates, extends, or amplifies the preceding thought 
(if the-clause following the colon is a complete sentence, begin it with a cap-
italletter; see Section 6.13) 
There are three main patterns of mother-infant attachment: secure, avoidant, and resistantl 
ambivalent (Ainsworth et al., 1978). 
Yang et al. (2019) confirmed the finding: Test performance depended on preparation. 


=== PAGE 174 ===
Punctuation 
~ 157 
• in ratios and proportions 
The proportion of salt tO water was 1 :8. 
Do not use a colon in the following case: 
• after an introduction that is not an independent clause or complete sentence 
The formula is r; = a; + e. 
Target behaviors included eating, sleeping, and socializing. 
The participants were asked to 
• rank the 15 items, 
• explain their choices, and 
• close their notebooks when finished. 
6.6 Dash 
Two kinds of dash are used in APA Style: the em dash (long dash) and the en dash 
(midsized dash). These dashes are different from hyphens (see Section 6.12) and 
minus signs (see Section 6.45). 
Em Dash. Use an em dash to set off an element added to amplify or digress from 
the main clause. Overuse of the em dash weakens the flow of material, so use 
it judiciously. Do not use a space before or after an em dash. Word-processing 
programs can be set to automatically convert two back-to-back hyphens to an 
em dash. (See Section 6.17 for capitalization following em dashes in titles.) 
Social adjustment-but not academic adjustment- was associated with extraversion. 
En Dash. An en dash is longer and thinner than a hyphen but shorter than an em 
dash. Use an en dash between words of equal weight in a compound adjective 
and to indicate a numerical range, such as a page or date range. Do not insert 
a space before or after an en dash. Word-processing programs have options for 
inserting an en dash. 
author-date citation 
Sydney- Los Angeles flight 
pp. 4-7 
50%-60% 
A hyphen rather than an en dash is generally used in an abbreviation that con-
tains dashes, such as the abbreviation for a test or scale (e.g., MMPI-2) or a diag-
nostic manual (DSM-S, ICD-ll; see Section 6.25). 
6.7 Quotation Marks 
This section addresses how to use quotation marks other than with direct quo-
tations (see Sections 8.25-8.36). Quotation marks often appear with other punc-
tuation marks. Place commas and periods inside closing quotation marks. Place 
other punctuation marks (e.g., colons, semicolons, ellipses) outside closing quo-
tation marks. 
Use double quotation marks in the following cases: 
• to refer to a letter, word, phrase, or sentence as a linguistic example or as itself 
the letter "m" 
the singular "they" 
answered "yes" or "no" 
. -·1 


=== PAGE 175 ===
158 
~ MECHANICS OF STYLE 
Instead of referring to someone as a "defective ch ild," talk about a "child with a congenital 
disability" or a "child with a birth impairment." 
Students wrote "1 promise to uphold the honor code" at the top of the test page. 
• to present stimuli in the text (long lists of stimuli may be better presented in 
atable, where qubtation marks are not needed) 
. 
The stimulus words were "garden," "Iaundry," "briefcase," and "salary." 
Note: Some publishers prefer italics for the presentation of stimuli and so forth; 
consult the manuscript preparation guidelines or journal editor for the preferred 
format. 
• to reproduce material from a test item or verbatim instructions to partici~ 
pants (if instructions are long, present them in an appendix or set them off 
from text in block quote format without quotation marks; see Sections 2.14 
and 8.27) 
The first item was "How tired do you feel after a long day at work?" 
Participants read, "You can write as much as you like when answering the questions." 
• to introduce a word or phrase used as an ironic comment, as slang, or as an 
invented or coined expression; use quotation marks only for the first occur-
rence of the word or phrase, not for subsequent occurrences 
First occurrence: 
considered "normal" behavior 
called a "friendly link" 
Subsequent occurrence: 
normal behavior 
a friend ly link 
• to introduce a label; after the label has been used once, do not use quotation 
marks for subsequent occurrences 
The image label changed from "spiderweb" to "dartboard." The spiderweb and dartboard 
labels . .. 
• to set off the title of a periodical article or book chapter when the title is used 
in the text or in a copyright attribution (do not use quotation marks around 
the article or book chapter title in the reference list entry) 
In text: 
Oerlemans and Bakker's (2018) article, "Motivating Job Characteristics and Happiness at 
Work: A Multilevel Perspective," described ... 
In the reference Iist: 
Oerlemans, W. G. M., & Bakker, A. B. (2018). Motivating job characteristics and happiness 
at work: A mu ltilevel perspective. Joumal of Applied Psychology, 103(11), 1230- 1241. 
https://doi.org/10.1037/apI0000318 
In a copyright attribution: 
Adapted from "Motivating Job Characteristics and Happiness at Work: A Multilevel 
Perspective," by W. G. M. Oerlemans and A. B. Bakker, 2018, Joumal of Applied Psy-
chology, 103(11), p. 1236 (https://doi.org/10.1 037/apI00003 18). Copyright 2018 by 
t

=== PAGE 176 ===
Punctuation 
~ 159 
• to identify the anchors of a scale; instead, Lise italics (see Section 6.22) 
• to refer to a numeral as itself because the meaning is sufficiently clear with-
out quotation marks 
The numeral 2 was displayed onscreen. 
• to hedge or downplay meaning (do not use any punctuation with these 
expressions) 
Correct: The teacher rewarded the class with tokens. 
Incorrect: The teacher "rewarded" the class with tokens. 
6.8 Parentheses 
Use parentheses in the following cases: 
• to set off structurally independent elements 
The patterns were statistically significant (se e Figure 5). 
• to set off in-text citations (see Section 8.11) 
Barnes and Spreitzer (2019) described 
(Proctor & Hoffmann, 2016) 
• to introduce an abbreviation in the text (see also Section 6.25) 
galvanic skin response (GSR) 
Child Report of Parental Behavior Inventory (CRPBI; Sehaefer, 1965) 
• to set off letters that identify items in a list within a sentence or paragraph 
(see also Section 6.50) 
The subjeet areas included (a) synonyms associated with cultural interaetions, (b) descrip-
tors for ethnic group membership, and (e) psyehologieal symptoms and outeomes assoei-
ated with bieultural adaptation. 
• to group mathematical expressions (see also Sections 6.9 and 6.46) 
(k -1)/(g -2) 
• to enclose numbers that identify displayed formulas and equations 
Mˇ = aMˇ _1 + fˇ + 9ˇ*9ˇ' 
(1) 
• to enclose statistical values that do not already contain parentheses 
was statistieally signifieant (p = .031) 
• to enclose degrees of freedom 
t(75) = 2.19 
F(2, 116) = 3.71 
Note: (When a complete sentenee is enclosed in parentheses, like this, place the 
end punetuation inside the parentheses.) If only part of a sentenee is enclosed in 
parentheses, place punetuation outside the parentheses (Iike this). 
Do not use parentheses in the following cases: 
• to enclose text within other parentheses; instead, use square brackets to 
avoid nested parentheses 
(Beek Depression Inventory [BDI]; Beek et al., 1996) 


=== PAGE 177 ===
160 ~ MECHANICS OF STYLE 
o to endose statistics that already contain parentheses; instead, use a comma 
before the statistics to avoid nested parentheses 
were significantly different, F(4, 132) = 13.62, P < .001. 
o to endose back-to-back parenthetical information; instead, place the infor- . 
mation in one set of parentheses, separated with a semi colon 
Correct: (e.g., flow; Csikszentmihalyi, 2014) 
Incorrect: (e.g., flow) (Csikszentmihalyi, 2014) 
6.9 Square Brackets 
Use square brackets in the following cases: 
o to endose parenthetical material that is already in parentheses 
(The results for the control group [n = 8] are also presented in Figure 2.) 
o to endose abbreviations when the abbreviated term appears in parentheses 
(Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory-2 [MMPI-2]; Butcher et al., 2001) 
o to endose values that are the limits of a confidence interval 
95% Cls [-7.2, 4.3], [9.2, 12.4], and [-1.2, -0.5] 
o to endose material inserted in a quotation by someone other than the origi-
nal author (see also Section 8.31) 
Schofield et al. (2016) found that "these types of [warm and accepting] parenting behav-
iors are positively associated with healthy chi ld and adolescent adjustment" (p. 615). 
o to endose a description ofform for sorne works (e.g., those outside the typ-
ical peer-reviewed academic literature; see Section 9.21) in a reference list 
entry 
Do not use square brackets in the following cases: 
o to set off statistics that already indude parentheses 
Correct: in the first study, F(l, 32) = 4.37, P = .045. 
Incorrect: in the first study (F[l, 32] = 4.37, P = .045). 
Incorrect: in the first study [F(l, 32) = 4.37, P = .045]. 
Note: In mathematical material, the placement of brackets and parentheses is 
reversed; that is, parentheses appear within brackets (se e Section 6.46). 
o around the year in a narrative citation when the sentence containing the nar-
rative citation appears in parentheses; instead, use commas (see Section 8.11) 
Correct: (as Gregory, 2020, concluded . .. ) 
Incorrect: (as Gregory [2020] concluded ... ) 
6.10 Slash 
Use a slash (also called a "virgule," "solidus;' or "shill") in the following cases: 
o to darify a comparison in a compound adjective, especially when one of 
the elements is a hyphenated compound (alternatively, use an en dash; see 
Section 6.6) 


=== PAGE 178 ===
the classification/similarity-judgment condition 
hits/false-alarms comparison 
testlretest reliability, test-retest reliability 
• to specify either of two possibilities 
and/or (use sparingly) 
Latino/a 
• to separate a numerator from a denominator 
XIY 
Spelling 
~ 161 
• to separate units of measurement accompanied by a numeric value (see Sec-
tion 6.27); if no numeric value appears with the unit of measurement, spell out 
the word "per." 
0.5 deg/s 
7.4 mg/kg 
cost per square meter 
• to set off phonemes 
101 
• in citations of translated, reprinted, reissued, or republished works in the 
text (see Section 9.41) 
Freud (1923/1961) 
Do not use a slash in the following cases: 
• more than once to express compound units; use centered dots and parenthe-
ses as needed to prevent ambiguity 
Correct: nmol • hr-1 • mg-1 
Incorrect: nmol/hr/mg 
• when a phrase would be clearer 
Correct: Each child handed the toy to their parent or guardian. 
Incorrect: Each child handed the toy to their parent/guardian. 
Spelling 
6.11 Preferred Spelling 
Spelling in APA Style papers should conform to the Merriam-Webster.com Dictio-
nary (https://www.merriam-webster.com). The spellings of psychological terms 
should conform to the APA Dictionary oi Psychology (https://dictionary.apa.org). 
lf a word appears differently in these two dictionaries, follow the spelling in 
the APA Dictionary oi Psychology. lf a word is not in either of these dictionaries, 
consult an unabridged edition of Websters dictionary (see https://unabridged. 
merriam-webster.com). lf the dictionary offers a choice of spellings, select one 
and use it consistently throughout your papero 
The plural forms of sorne words of Latin or Greek origin can be troublesome 
(particularly those that end in the letter "a"). A list of preferred spellings of sorne 
of the more common ones follows. 
Singular: 
Plural: 
appendix 
appendices 
criterion 
criteria 
curriculum 
curricula 
datum 
data 
phenomenon 
phenomena 


=== PAGE 179 ===
162 
~ MECHANICS OF STYLE 
Remember that plural nouns take plural verbs. 
Correct: The data indicate 
Incorrect: The data indicates 
In general, form the possessive of a singular name by adding an apostrophe and , 
an "s" (e.g., "Milner's theory"). This guideline also applies when a name ends in "s" 
(e.g., "Descartes's philosophy," ''James's work"). 
The spellings of terms related to technology evolve over time. Use the follow-
ing spellings for sorne common technology words in APA Style papers:' 
email 
ebook 
ereader 
database 
data set 
smartphone 
internet 
intranet 
Wi-Fi 
website 
webpage 
the web 
horne page 
username 
login page (but "Iog in" 
emoji (for the plural, either 
when used as a verb) 
"ernoji" or "ernojis") 
6.12 Hyphenation 
Compound words- words composed of two or more words- take many forms; 
they may be written as (a) two separate words (open), (b) one hyphenated word, 
or (c) one solid word. Compound words are ofien introduced into the language 
as separate or hyphenated words; as they become more commonplace, they 
tend to fuse into a solid word. For example, "data base" has become "database," 
and "e-mail" has become "email." The dictionary is an excellent guide for choos-
ing the proper form: When a compound appears in the dictionary, its usage is 
established, and it is considered a permanent compound (e.g., "health care," 
"self-esteem," "caregiver"). In general, follow the hyphenation shown in the dic-
tionary for permanent compounds (e.g., write "health care" without a hyphen, 
even in a phrase like "health care setting"); adjust hyphenation only to prevent 
misreading. Dictionaries do not always agree on the way a compound should be 
written (open, hyphenated, or solid); Section 6.11 specifies the dictionaries to 
use for APA Style papers. 
Another form of compound-the temporary compound-is made up of 
two or more words that occur together, perhaps only in a particular paper, 
to express a thought. Temporary compounds are not usually listed in the dic-
tionary. To determine how to hyphenate temporary compounds, follow these 
guidelines: 
• If a temporary compound can be misread or expresses a single thought, 
use a hyphen, especially when the temporary compound appears as an 
adjective before the noun. When in doubt, use a hyphen for clarity. For 
example, ''Adolescents resided in two parent homes" may mean that two 
homes served as residences or that each adolescent lived with two parents; 
a hyphen in "two-parent homes" s

=== PAGE 180 ===
Spelling 
~ 163 
Table 6.1 Guide to Hyphenating Temporary Compound Terms 
Grammar guideline 
Hyphenate 
A compound with a participle when it precedes 
the term it modifies 
A phrase used as an adjective when it 
precedes the term it modifies 
An adjective-and-noun compound when it precedes 
the term it modifies 
A compound with a number as the first element 
when the compound precedes the term it modifies 
A fraction used as an adjective 
Do not hyphenate 
A compound that follows the term it modifies 
A compound including an adverb ending in "-Iy" 
A compound including a comparative ar 
superlative adjective 
Chemical terms 
Latin phrases used as adjectives or adverbs 
A modifier including a letter or numeral as the 
second element 
Fractions used as nouns 
Example 
decision-making behavior 
water-deprived animals 
Canadian-born actor 
trial-by-trial analysis 
to-be-recalled items 
one-on-one interviews 
high-anxiety group 
middle-class families 
low-frequency words 
six-trial problem 
12th-grade students 
16-min interval 
two-thirds majority 
behavior related to decision making 
students in the 12th grade 
a majority of two thirds 
widely used test 
relatively homogeneous sample 
randomly assigned participants 
better written paper 
less informed interviewers 
higher arder learning 
highest scoring students 
sodium chloride solution 
amino acid compound 
a posteriori test 
post hoc comparisons 
were fed ad lib (but hyphenate the 
adjectival form: ad-lib feeding) 
Group B participants 
Type 11 error 
Trial 1 performance 
one third of the participants 
• Write most words formed with prefixes and suffixes as one word without a 
hyphen. See Table 6.2 for examples of prefixes and suffixes that do not require 
hyphens; see Table 6.3 for examples of prefixed and suffixed words that do 
require hyphens. The same suffix may be hyphenated in sorne cases and not 
in others (e.g., "nationwide" and "worldwide" vs. "industry-wide"). 
• When two or more compound modifiers have a common base, that base 
is sometimes omitted in aH except the last modifier, but the hyphens are 
retained. Leave a space after the hyphen when the base has been omitted, 
unless punctuation foHows the hyphen. 
long- and short-term memory 
2-, 3-, and 1 O-min trials 


=== PAGE 181 ===
164 ~ MECHANICS OF STYLE 
Table 6.2 Prefixes and Suffixes That Do Not Require Hyphens 
Prefix or suffix 
Example 
Prefix or suffix 
Example 
able 
retrievable 
mid 
midterm 
after 
aftercare 
mini 
minisession 
anti 
antisocial 
multi 
multimethod 
bi 
bilingual 
non 
nonsignificant 
cede/sede/ceed 
intercede 
over 
oversampling 
co 
covariate 
phobia 
agoraphobia 
cyber 
cyberwarfare 
post 
posttest 
equi 
equimax 
pre 
preexperimental 
extra 
extracurricular 
pseudo 
pseudoscience 
gram 
cardiogram 
quasi 
quasiperiodic 
infra 
infrared 
re 
reevaluate 
inter 
intersex 
semi 
semidarkness 
like 
wavelike 
socio 
socioeconomic 
macro 
macrocosm 
sub 
subtest 
mega 
megawatt 
super 
superordinate 
meta 
metaethnography 
supra 
supraliminal 
meter 
nanometer 
un 
unbiased 
micro 
microcosm 
under 
underdeveloped 
Note. However, use a hyphen in "meta-analysis" and "quasi-experimental." 
Table 6.3 Compound Words That Require Hyphens 
Occurrence 
Example 
Compounds in which the base word is 
• capitalized 
pro-Freudian 
Likert-type 
Stroop-like 
• a number 
post-1977 
• an abbreviation 
pre-UCS trial 
• more than one word 
non-achievement-oriented students 
AII "self-" compounds, whether 
self-report technique 
adjectives or nouns ' 
the test was self-paced 
self-esteem 
Words that could be misunderstood 
re-pair (pair again) 
re-form (form again) 
un-ionized (not ionized) 
Words in which the prefix ends and the 
meta-analysis 
,. 
base word begins with "a," "i," or "o" b 
anti-intellectual 
co-occur 
' But "self psychology." 
b "Pre" and "re" compounds are not hyphenated with base words beginning with "e" (e.g., 
"preexisting," "reexamine"). 


=== PAGE 182 ===
Capitalization 
~ 165 
. Ca pitalization 
APA Style is a "down" style, meaning that words are lowercase unless there is 
specific guidance to capitalize them, as described in' the following sections. 
6.13 Words Beginning a Sentence 
Capitalize the following: 
• the first word in a complete sentence 
' . the first word after a colon if what follows the colon is a complete sentence 
The statement was emphatic: Further research is needed, 
Do not capitalize the following: 
• a personal name that begins with a lowercase letter when the name begins a 
sentence; alternatively, reword the sentence 
, , . after the test, van de Vijver et al. (2019) concluded 
• a proper noun (other than a personal name) that begins with a lowercase let-
ter (e.g., iPad, eBay) or a lowercase statistical term (e.g., t test, p value) when 
it begins a sentence (see Section 6.26); instead, reword the sentence to avoid 
beginning with a lowercase letter 
6.14 Proper Nouns and Trade Names 
Capitalize the following: 
• proper nouns and proper adjectives 
• names of racial and ethnic groups (see also Section 5.7) 
We interviewed 25 Black women living in rural Louisiana, 
• names of specific university departments, academic institutions, and aca-
demic courses 
Capitalize 
Department of Psychology, San Francisco 
State University 
Psychology 101 
Science of Nursing Practice 
Do not capitalize 
a psychology department, a university 
a psychology course 
a nursing course 
• trade and brand names (in general, do not include the copyright or trade-
mark symbol after a trade or brand name used in an academic paper; how-
ever, such symbols may be included in business and marketing materials) 
Capitalize 
Do ríot capitalize 
APA Style 
a writing style 
Zoloft 
sertraline (generic name for Zoloft) 
iPhone, Android phone 
smartphone 
Wi-Fi 
wireless, hotspot 


=== PAGE 183 ===
166 
C\.v 
MECHANICS OF STYLE 
Do not capitalize the following: 
• proper adjectives that have a common meaning (consult a dictionary for 
guidance; see Section 6.11), except for personal names within these terms 
eustachian tube 
cesarean section 
but 
Freudian slip 
Wilks's lambda 
Euclidean geometry 
6.15 Job Titles and Positions 
Capitalize a job title or position when the title precedes a name (titles are not 
used in bylines; see Section 2.5): 
President Lincoln was elected in 1860. 
Executive Director of Marketing Carolina Espinoza led the meeting. 
Dr. Aisha Singh, Dr. Singh 
Registered Nurse Paul T. Lo, Nurse Lo 
Do not capitalize ajob title or position when the title follows the name or refers 
to a position in general: 
Abraham Lincoln was president of the United States. 
Carolina Espinoza, executive director of marketing, led the meeting. 
president, vice president, chief executive officer, executive director, manager 
professor, instructor, facu Ity, dean 
psychologist, psychiatrist, counselor, social worker 
physician, doctor, physician assistant 
nurse, registered nurse, advanced practice nurse, nurse practitioner 
6.16 Diseases, Disorders, Therapies, Theories, and Related Terms 
Do not capitalize the names of the following: 
• diseases or disorders 
autism spectrum disorder 
major depression 
• therapies and treatments 
cognitive behavior therapy 
applied behavior analysis 
diabetes 
leukemia 
immunotherapy 
cataract surgery 
• theories, concepts, hypotheses, principIes, models, and statistical procedures 
object permanence 
theory of mind 
associative learning model 
law of effect 
psychoanalytic theory 
two-group t test 
However, capitalize personal names that appear within the names of diseases, 
disorders, therapies, treatments, theories, concepts, hypotheses, principIes, 
models, and statistical procedures. 
Alzheimer's disease 
non-Hodgkin's Iymphoma 
Freudian theory 
Down syndrome 
Maslow's hierarchy of needs 
Pavlovian conditioning 


=== PAGE 184 ===
Capitalization 
co.v 
167 
·6.17 Titles of Works and Headings Within Works 
APA Style uses two types of capitalization for titles of works and headings 
within works: title case and sentence case. In title case, major words are cap-
italized. In sentence case, most words are 10wercased. Nouns, verbs (including 
linking vetbs), adjectives, adverbs, pronouns, and all words of four letters or 
more are considered major words. Short (i.e., three letters or fewer) conjunc-
tions, short prepositions, and all articles are considered minor words. 
Title Case. In titlecase, capitalize the following words in a title or heading: 
.• the first word, even a minor word such as "The" 
• the first word of a subtitle, even if it is a minor word 
• the first word after a colon, em dash, or end punctuation in a heading, even if 
it is a minor word 
• major words, including the second part of hyphenated major words (e.g., 
"Self-Report," not "Self-report") 
• words offour letters or more (e.g., "With," "Between," "From") 
Lowercase only minor words that are three letters or fewer in a title or heading 
(except the first word in a title or subtitle or the first word after a colon, em dash, 
or end punctuation in a heading): 
• short conjunctions (e.g., "and;' "as;' "but," "for," "if," "nor," "or," "so," "yet") 
• articles ("a," "an," "the") 
• 
short prepositions (e.g., "as," "at," "by," "for," "in," "of," "off," "on," "per," "to," "up," 
"vía") 
When to Use Title Case. Use title case for the following: 
• titles of articles, books, reports, and other works appearing in text 
In the book Bilingualism Across the Lifespan: Factors Moderating Language Proficiency 
In the article "Media Influences on Self-Stigma of Seeking Psychological Services: The 
Importance of Media Portrayals and Person Perception " 
• titles of tests or measures, including subscales (see Section 6.18) 
Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale 
WAIS-IV Verbal Comprehension Index 
• all headings within a work (Levels 1-5; see Section 2.27) 
• the title of your own paper and of named sections and subsections within it 
the Data Analyses section 
• titles of periodicals (these are also italicized) 
Journal of Experimental Psychology: Learning, Memory, and Cognition 
The Washington Post 
• table titles (these are also italicized; see Section 7.11) 
• figure titles (these are also italicized), axis labels, and legends (see Sections 
7.25-7.27) 


=== PAGE 185 ===
168 
~ MECHANICS OF STYLE 
Sentence Case. In sentence case, lowercase most words in the title or heading. 
Capitalize only the following words: 
• the first word of the title or heading 
• the first word of a subtitle . 
• the first word after a colon, em dash, or end punctuation in a heading 
• nouns followed by numerals or letters 
• proper nouns 
When to Use Sentence Case. Use sentence case for the following: 
• titles of articles, books, reports, webpages, and other works in reference list 
entries, even iftitle case was used in the original work (see also Section 9.19) 
Golden, A R., Griffin, C. B., Metzger, l. w., & Cooper, S. M. (2018). School racial climate 
and academic outcomes in African American adolescents: The protective role of peers. 
Journal of Black Psychology, 44(1),47-73. https://doi.org/10.1177/0095798417736685 
Mena, J. A, & Quina, K. (Eds.). (2019). Integrating multiculturalism and intersectionality into 
the psychology curriculum: Strategies for instructors. American Psychological Associ-
ation. https://doi.org/10.1037/0000137-000 
• table column headings, entries, and notes (see Sections 7.12-7.14) 
• figure notes (see Section 7.28) 
Note: Words in the image of a figure (see Section 7.26) may be in either title case 
or sentence case. Follow the same guidelines for capitalization in a figure image as 
used in the texto 
6.18 Titles of Tests and Measures 
Capitalize titles of published and unpublished tests and measures and their sub-
scales. Do not capitalize words such as "test" and "scale" unless they are part of 
the test or subscale title. See Section 10.11 for more on use of italics with the 
titles of test and measures. 
Thematic Apperception Test 
Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory-2 
MMPI-2 Depression scale 
Stroop Color-Word Interference Test 
the authors' Mood Adjective Checklist 
SF-36 Physical Functioning scale 
Do not capitalize shortened, inexact, or generic titles of tests or measures. 
a vocabulary test 
Stroop-like color test 
6.19 Nouns Followed by Numerals or Letters 
Capitalize nouns followed by numerals or letters that denote a specific place in 
a series. 
Figure 3 
Appendix B 
Footnote 2 
Trials 5 and 6 
GrantAG11214 
Table 1, Row 2, Column 6 
Research Question 3 
Days 7-9 
Part 4 
Chapter 8 


